} SPECIAL 


BOXING 


HOW TO KNOCK ’EM OUT 


YOUR SPECIAL BONUS BOXING COURSE 


Dear Pupil: 


I believe I have definitely proved to you by now that my greatest desire is to 
help build you he-man muscles and a hesman's strength, and to teach you how to think 


and act like a real he-man 


To help you build strong muscles, yet fail to teach you the many useful -- and 
sometimes necessary -- things you can do with them, would be to fail you as your in- 
structor, 


It is with this in mind that I send you this Special Bonus Boxing Course, for 
surely there is no red-blooded he-man who doesn't want to learn how to protect him- 
self or to valiantly defend a weaker person when he must. 


Of course, if you've not fully completed the basic Muscle Building Course you'wi 
been working on, you should not begin this advanced course. Believe me, it takes 
plenty of muscular strength, energy, endurance, timing, co-ordination as well as 
boxing ‘know'how". 


That 4s why you should go all-out on the basic course and build all these essen 
tials before you take up boxing. I do, however, want you to study this course tho- 
roughly and visualize just how you'd react to such a situation in which boxing would 
be the only thing you could fall back on. I know that if you study it well, even be 
fore you begin the actual practice of it, you'll be twice as good in it and learn it 
twice as fast! 


You want to be able to take care of yourself in any situation, you want to provi 
to yourself that you are a he-man....you want to win! 


This Special Bonus Boxing Course will teach you in easy-to-understand fashion 
just how to do it. It's sure-fire and fool-proof and if you really practice it well 
you will be able to be just as tough as the occasion demends. You'll not only know 
how to ‘take it" but how to ‘give it’ too, 


So 


Boxing is, first of ell, a gentleman's sport. It has had a gentleman's code of 
rules for centuries. You've probably never met a true professional boxer who wasn't 
soft-spoken, considerate of others, never loud, never a braggart,,.but a gentleman 
first and last--in triumph or defeat. 


The world's greatest boxers never "throw their weight around", they do not pick 
quarrels..,in fact they usually go out of their way to avoid them? 


That is why I know you will not use the knowledge you gain from this course to 
pick a fight with someone or to bully others. Think of boxing as it is popularly 
called,,,"the manly art of self-defense".,.and underscore that "manly", To use this 
knovledge for baser purposes goss against the high code followed by all bodybuilders 
worthy of that nane, 


THESE SPECIAL EXERCISES WILL HELP YOU TO BUILD THE 


STRENGT! AND STAMINA YOU NEED MOST FOR BOXING 


Any exercise which builds up strength, stamina, speed, skill, endurance, or 
neuro-muscular control is of value to boxing. Thus, ALL of the exercises you have al- 
teady done, or will do, by the time you finish your Muscle-Building Course, will be 
of definite value to you in boxing. Naturally, there are some exercises which are 
more valuable for boxing than others, because they develop those muscles and those at- 
tributes most needed by the boxer. Eere are some of the most important of these 
SPECIAL Boxing Exercises: =- 


GROUP I 


You need speedy agile legs and 
good wind. You must be able to move 
forwards and backwards, to the sides 
diagonally, and every other way, 
quickly, smoothly, efficiently, and 
you must always be in balence. You 
also need good wind to enable you to 
get a steady supply of oxygen so 
that you can keep up the vigorous 
pace that boxing requires. The fol- 
lowing exercises will help to do 
both jobs for you. 


l. ASTRIDE JUMPING 


Stand upright with arms at 
sides and feet together. Jump legs 
apart,swinging arms sideways to 
shoulder level at the same time. 
Jump Feet and arms together again. 
Repeat until puffed. 


FRONT-BACK JUMPING 


SHADOW BOXING 


FRONT-BACK JUMPING 


Stand upright. Take one step for- 
ward, Now swinging your arms al- 
ternately forward and backwards, 
jump and change the position of 
your feet. Continue jumping 

front and back until puffed. 


3. SKIPPING 


This is the boxer's favorite. 
Skip on both feet, then your left 
then your right, then try moving 
around, turning in difforent dir- 
ections, and so forth. Not only 
is this a good exercise for your 
toes, ankles, feet, legs, thighs 
but swinging the rope itself is 
of value to your arms and shoul- 
ders. 


SHADOW BOXING 


In this you fight an imaginary 
boxer. You must jump, weave, 
twist,tura, jab, move forward, 
skip backwards, glide to the side 
punch, duck and otherwise let 
your imagination direct you, The 
idea is to learn how to move your 
body, how to shift your feet ra- 
pidly and still stay in balance, 
how to punch and recover your 
guard vith speed, and of course, 
to give yourself some good exer- 
cise. 


ROAD WORK 


This is a must for every boxer, 
In fact, it is essential for any 
sport that requires powerful legs 
a strong heart, vigorous lungs 
and good wind. The best way to 
start is to trot at an easy pace 
until you begin to feel winded, 
then walk until you feel refre- 
shed a bit, then run again, and 
so on. Gradually you will be 
able to run further and further 
with shorter and shorter walking 
betake, 


ion to be a good boxer, in order to move 
this way and that, and to move quickly for- 
. You also need strong wrists and forcarns 
w exercises which will help you to 


You need strong muscles around the mid- 
your upper body from side to side, to wea 
ward and backwards without moving your 
and powerful upper arms and shoulders. H 
strengthen these important parts. 


e area 


FROM SIDE TO SIDE 


Stand upright with your arms Stand upright with your legs 
hanging at your sides. Bend apart and place your hands on 
to the right as fer as pos- your neck. Bend backwards as 
sible, then straighten your far as you can go, and then 
body and bend to the left as bend forward es fer ès you 
far as possible. Continus can go. Continue backward 
from side to side at a fast and forward bending until 


pace until you begin to tire. tired. 


3 TRUNK TWISTING 
AND CIRCEMNG 


Stand upright with your legs apart and 
your hands on your neck. Bond forward, then 
force trunk to the left and back, to the 
right and forward in a complete circle anti- 
clockwise. Continue until you have done 
four complete circles and then reverse the 
process and do four complete circles clock- 
wise, Keep this up until you are tired. 


k, 


5. _ ALTERNATE 
DUMDBALL PRESSES 


Grasp a small dumbbell, or other weight 
in cach hand and press alternately overhead, 
Start with the weights at your shoulders 
and then press your right hand overhead. 
Now, 2s you lower your right arm stretch 
your left. Coatinue st a fairly rapid pace 
until tired. This exercise is important 
for developing the triceps power that you 

d for delivering those crushing blows. 


WRIST ROLLER 


Tie one end of a piece of rope on a 


short piece of broomhandle and tie the other 
end on a weight. Now roll the rope around 
the broomhandle by turning it. Keep this 
up until you have raised the weight as high 
as possible and then reverse the procos 

and unvind the rope, Continue until your 
wrists and forearms get tired. 


re 


HERE'S NOW TO` PROTECT YOURSELF AT ALL TIMES 


Having completed the Muscle Building Course, and having started the Special 
Boxing Exercises listed above, you are now ready to learn some of the vital secrets 


of the art of boxing itself, 


1, MAKE A HZ-MAN FIST 


There is a right anda 
wrong way to make a fist. 
‘This is very important. T£ 
you use the wrong way you can 
break your own hand or wrist. 
If you use the right way you 
will be able to deliver a 
piston-like, sledge-hanmer 
blow without injury to your- 
self. 

Here is how you do it:- 
The four fingers of your 
hand must be clenched tight- 
ly presenting a closed sur- 
face. Then your thumb must 
be drawn down to rest across 
the middle segments of your 
lst and 2nd fingers. The 
pressure of your thumb must 
be firm and solid, and your 
wrist mist be kept straight. 
Your lower arm, from fist 
to elbow, should present one 
solid piece like a piston- 
arm, or as if it had been 
dipped in cement. 


You must be prepared to use your fists for 
an attack, when your opponent lets down his 
guard, and at the same time, must be ready to 
protect yourself if he attacks you. Thus, you 
must distribute the weight of your body so that 
it will be in perfect balance so that you 
may move backward or forward with the same ease 
and speed. To do this, face your opponent with 
your left foot forward. Keep this foot flat on 
the ground because most of your weight will be 
on it. This is your pivot foot. Your right 
foot should be back and somewhat at right angles 
to the left foot. Keep the heel of your right 
foot off of the ground and rest the weight of 
your body only lightly on this foot, because it 
is the foot that enables you to shift around 
with lightning rapidity. 

Your left arm is held advanced, slightly 
crooked at the elbow, with the fist close to 
shoulder height. Your right exm is bent upward 
and held directly in front of your chest, just 
above your waist-line. Your left arm is pri- 
marily offensive, and your right is primarily 
defensive though both may be used either way. 


«T= 


3. GET YOUR BODY BEHIND YOUR PUNCHES 


— 


Your arms and fists alone do 
not carry knock-out power. You 
must get additional drive from your 
shoulders, your back, your mid- 
region muscles and your legs. You 
need "follow through" to deliver 
those devastating blows. When you 
see an opening you must put every- 
thing you've got into it. Your 
punch may appear to come from your 
clenched fist but it actually 
starts from your toes. 


DO NOT TELEGRAPH YOUR PUNCHES 


When you decide to punch, do 
not pull back your fist in prepara- 
tion for throwing your punch, An 
experienced fighter will be watching 
your hands and will probably beat 
you to the punch. Even an ordinary 
Fighter, with no boxing experience 
will be prepared, if your actions 
arc obvious, Make sure your hands 
are in the punching position all 
along and, when you de throw your 
punch, let it come from there with 
the speed of an express train, 

Your punch should be knocking him 
for a loop before he even knows 
what hit him, 


EN 
DEVASTATING PUNCHES WHICH WILL ENABLE YOU TO 
ANNIHILATE YOUR OPPONENT 


There are four lethal blows which are responsible for all of the knockouts 
which occur in boxing. These are as follows:- (1) Punch to the Chin, (2) Punch 
Behind the Ear, (3) Punch to the Solar Plexus, and (4) Punch to the Heart. Each 
of these blows must be delivered with telling force to do its terrible job. Each 
must have behind it the full weight of your body. The force of your atm-power 
alone is not enough. This will jolt your opponent, but will not finish him off, 
even if it is delivered to the right place. 


l. THE PUNCH TO THE CHIN 


Your fist must land either to the 
left or the right of the center point 
of your opponent's chin. Start your 
punch with your right elbow at your 
side and your fist at your chest. 
Throw your fist directly forward and 
up toward your opponent's chin. When 
your elbow is almost straight, twist 
your wrist so that the palm of your 
hand is down, Throw your shoulder 
into the punch end add the weight of 
your trunk and legs. If the blow 
lands, the fight will be over. If 
you miss, then recover quickly and 
dance away from your opponent. 


IIND TH: 


AR 


This is similar to the punch to the 
side of the chin and my be landed either 
behind the ear or just below it. It is 
delivered similarly to the blow described 
above except that the arm is hooked or 
looped at the ear, If the fighter turns 
his head to the side, then of course 
the delivery can be exactly the same as 
for the punch to the chin, The sane is 
true if in dencing around you happen to 
get into a position slightly to his side 

Both of these lethal punches send a 
jerring impact to the brain which causes 
a temporary paralysis, The victim loses 
consciousness and falls to the ground, 
completely halsless. 


3. THE PUNCH TO TIE SOLAR PLEXUS 


‘This bow is thrown in the same man- 
ner as the punch to the chin, but you 
must aim at a point just above your op- 
ponent's belt and near the middle of 
his stomach, This blow does not make a 
fighter lose consciousness. It will 
make him double up with violent cramp- 
like spasmodic contractions. Your vic- 
tim will crumple forward, fall to his 
hands and knees, and after a few jerks, 
will flatten out. tle will probably be 
aware of all that is going on but will 
be suffering such terrible pain he 
won't be able to do anything about it. 
Furthermore, his breathing apparatus 
will feel as if it was paralyzed and, 
even if he tried, he couldn't get up 
on his feet. 


4. THE PUNCH OVER THE HEART 


This too is a deadly bow. So 
much so in fact, that it has been known 
to kill outright. However, it must 
be delivered with speed and strength 
and with the weight of the body behind 
it. It should be delivered directly 
to the region of the left breast. You 
should be close to your victim, dir- 
ectly in front of him, and must put 
your shoulders and body behind the 
punch. Your fist must land squarely 
and with sledge-hammer force. ‘The 
crushing blow will stop the regular 
heart action momentarily, thereby in- 
terrupting the flow of blood, and 
thus bring about a temporary paralysis. 
Your opponent vill drop his arms and 
fall on his face. He mey also lose 
consciousness. 


-10- 


A FEW SPECIAL POINTS TO REMEMBER 


l. ALWAYS KEEP COOL:- Don't lose your head. No matter how angry you may be, 
you must control your temper. The moment you let your violent emotions rule you, 
you will begin making mistakes. The smart fighter tries to make his opponent lose 
his head and then steps in, and lays him out cold at the first hot-headed blunder. 


+ DON'T STAND STILL: Keep moving around all the time to make a difficult 
target of yourself. If you are fighting a right-handed foe, then keep circling to 
his left. In this way, even if he throws a punch, you will be moving away from it, 
and he won't be able to get any force behind his blow. If he is left-handed, then 
of course you must circle to his right. 


aids) 


3. WATCH YOUR OPPONENT'S HANDS: In a fair fight your foe can only hit with 
his hi Therefore, if you keep your eyes on his hands, you will see his punches 
start, and will be able to move out of his way, set up a guard, or even hit him 
first. If it is a rough-and-cumble fight then you must watch everything. 


KEEP IN PERFECT CONDITION: If you are in first-class shape you already 


have dicted ‘@dvantages over anyone who is not in condition. Exercise regularly, 
get plenty of sunshine, fresh air, good food, and sleep. Follow correct health 
habits and adhere to good principles of living, Don't drink, or smoke, or dis- 
sipate your health and strength away, Stay “fighting fit" all the time, and you 
will be able to meet any emergency which might arise. 


