


by JOE WILLIAMS 


ion 


“Introduct 





























i 1 























146,83 
P| 
© 1957, ROCKY MARCIANO, CHARLEY GOLDMAN, and AL BACHMAN 


All rights reserved, including the right 
to reproduce this book, or any portions thereof, in any form, 
except for the inclusion of brief quotations ina review. 


Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 57-14785 


Printed in the United States of America 
78230 











The Authors Gratefully Acknowledge 


the Editorial Assistance of Al Bachman 
in the Preparation 


of the Entire Manuscript 






































Foreword 










L. TRAIPSING THE SPORTS 
trail for these many years, I have met, speaking conserva- 
_ tively, thousands of athletes and a proportionate total of 
coaches or trainers. You'll pardon the expression, but most 
of them made a cynic out of me. Posturings of one sort or 
another perpetrated with a straight face, which they throw 
at you regularly, are not my cup of tea. 

For obvious reasons, a typewriter-pounder considers 

himself lucky in the pursuit of his profession when he 
comes across a person or a couple of persons in sports who 
are both genuine and accomplished—1in other words, who 
are right guys and yet don’t finish last. 
- Tm referring, of course, to Rocky Marciano and 
Charley Goldman, who, with this volume, have experi- 
enced the pains of literary parenthood. Let’s analyze them, 
‘separately, then together. 


Vii 











FOREWORD 


Marciano, to me, is more than a heavyweight champion 
who went through all of his forty-nine fights without a loss 
or a draw. He is a fellow who started later probably than 
anybody who has held this title in the past. He entered the 
game without the heralding given a natural prospect. At 
the beginning, he had nothing going for him but a strong 
body and a determination to make a better life for himself 
than he could have looked forward to as a laborer in the 
shoe factories of Brockton, Massachusetts, his home town. 

Rocky made the grade because he refused to brook dis- 
couragement. Every setback—and there were plenty— 
was only a fuller challenge, to which he responded that 
much more. He was always slugging away at self-improve- 
ment and it is typical of him that, by the time he quit, he 
still considered himself incomplete at his trade and was 
trying to learn more. 

Now, for that co-author, little Charley. My affection for 
him possibly is tainted by the fact that he and I grew up in 
pretty much the same generation, though in widely sepa- 
rated parts of this country. What I often see in Charley are 
traces of countless youngsters I knew when he and I were 
juveniles—a rugged, adventuring attitude that, with ex- 
perience, made for him, and others, an. authentic sophis- 
tication. | 

I mean that Goldman, who began at the bottom, recog- 
nized the bumps and bruises as inevitable. He gambled to 
advance himself, not so much in dollars and cents but in 
his time and effort. Here and there he was made a patsy of 


Vili 





FOREWORD 


—as aren't we all? But, as he matured, he acquired the 
benefit of these hard lessons without ever turning bitter or 
resentful. 

Now, having covered both in general terms, let me tell 
you what I think they meant to each other. Marciano was 
the perfect clay for Goldman’s moulding. He had sincerity, 
energy and faith. As teacher, Goldman had patience, 
knowledge and kindness. There’s no doubt that a less 
dedicated novice than Rocky would have quit before reach- 
ing his goal. It is also true that a trainer less painstaking 
than Charley would have given up on the raw material 


Marciano had presented. 


At this point let me get back to Charley, whom moderns 
may not know sufficiently to appreciate as a boxing figure. 
He was a European-born boy brought to this country by 
his dad and set down in Brooklyn in a neighborhood where 
Terry McGovern was a demigod. He adopted American 
ways quickly. Boxing and baseball became his meat and 
drink—and Terry, who excelled in both, | became his 
personal hero. | 

McGovern responded to Charley and taught the lad 
boxing in the manner of the ring’s Golden Age, then just 


coming to a close. Goldman mastered the fundamentals— 


balance, hitting stance, defense and the rest. At sixteen, 
this little fellow (he never was more than a bantam) was 
a top-flight pro fighting twenty rounds. 

Sitting around with Charley, as I have many times, I’ve 
heard him spin yarns of the ancient days that fascinate the 


ix 


fp? 





























FOREWORD 


listener. There was the night of his first big bout, when the 
promoter ducked out with the dough while he and his op- 
ponent were clobbering each other. There was his cele- 
brated series with Georgie Kitson, in which they fought 
scatey-eight times, sometimes two and three times the same 
night in different clubs. There was his fight in Canada 
when a waitress responsive to his charms slipped a mickey 
into the pre-bout meal of his opponent . . . and many 
more such tales. | 

Goldman, who boxed from 1904 to 1914, has had a 
colorful and productive career'since as a trainer and man- 
ager. To attempt to list the innumerable champions he 
developed would constitute a book in itself—Al McCoy, 
Lou Ambers and Marciano come most readily to mind. 
McCoy, because he was derided by some as-a so-called 
cheese champion, although his one-round knockout of 
George Chip in winning the title was solidly authentic. 
Ambers, because that remarkably gutsy competitor 
climbed to the top echelon after wise-guy characters had 
panned him as a glorified graduate of the bootleg.amateurs. 
Marciano, because he made his detractors eat their words 
after they’d insisted he couldn’t make it. 


To repeat, I want to salute a couple of right guys who | 


didn’t finish last. What they’ve written about boxing will 
enable those who read and study it to become right guys 
who won't finish last either. Can I say more? 


JOE WILLIAMS 





About 
This Book 


W. HAVE WRITTEN THIS 
book primarily for boys and young men who want to im- 
prove their bodies and who want their facts in the most 


condensed form possible. 


For this reason, we have reduced our ideas to step-by- 
step principles which any ambitious young man can easily 
follow. 

Both of us have been in the sporting world for many 
years. We have studied many theories on physical culture 
and have applied them to the hundreds of young boxers 
and bodybuilders we have come in contact with. We have 
worked in earnest, comparing notes on physical make-up, 
exercises used and results obtained.’ 

What we tell you here is what we ourselves have learned 
from the greatest teacher of all—Experience. We honestly 
believe that, by following the rules and exercises laid down 
in this book, any young man can perfect his physical de- 
velopment to the maximum his body will allow. 


od 


Rocky MARCIANO 
AND 
CHARLEY GOLDMAN 





Contents 


~ part oNE BODYBUILDING 


Physical Fitness 
BY ROCKY MARCIANO ........--00+85 3 


. 


THE WHy OF PHYSICAL FITNESS, 3 
GETTING STARTED, 9 
BUILDING YOUR OWN APPARATUS, 11 


2 The Human Body 


BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN .........----- 15 


THE ORGANS OF THE Bopy, 16 
NATURAL STRENGTH EXPLAINED, 17 


THe Diet, 19 


‘Tur ImporRTANCE OF Goop Foon, 25 — 


xiii 








CONTENTS 


3 


XIV 


The Use of the Body in Boxing 
BY ROCKY MARCIANO ............... 29 


THE ARMS, 30 

THE STOMACH, 31 

SHOULDERS, 31 

THE CHEST, 32 

THE NEcK, 33 

THE CALVES, 33 

THE LEGs, 34 . 
THE Back, 35 


Bodybuilding Exercises 
BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN {)............ 37 


DEVELOPING THE ARM, 37 | 
DEVELOPING THE STOMACH, 45 
DEVELOPING THE CHEST, 49 
DEVELOPING THE CALVES, 53 
DEVELOPING THE LEGs, 54 : 
DEVELOPING THE BACK, 55 


Planning a Schedule 
BY ROCKY MARCIANO ............... 59 





CONTENTS 


PART TWO 


How to Begin 
BY ROCKY MARCIANO ............05. 


THE NEED FOR SOUND TRAINING, 67 
THE PROPER STANCE, 69 

. MAKING YouR OWN PUNCHING Bac, 75 
LEARNING TO PUNCH, 77 


7 Punches to Develop oo 
* BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN .........-e00- 


“ ~ 


THE LEFT JAB, 79 
THE RiGHT Cross, 82 . 
Tue Lert Hook; 85 
THE UPPERCUT, 91 


8 Defense Agamst Punches 


BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN ...........06: 


DEFENSE AGAINST THE LEFT Jas, 95 
DEFENSE AGAINST THE RIGHT Cross, 97 
DEFENSE AGAINST THE LEFT Hook, 99 
DEFENSE AGAINST THE UPPERCUT, 101 


COMMON-SENSE BOXING 


67 


79 


95 


KV 





CONTENTS 


9 


10 


i 








xvi 


Counter-Punching 

BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN ............. 103 
COUNTERING THE LEFT JAB, 103 

COUNTERING THE RIGHT CRoss, 106 
COUNTERING A LEFT Hook, 108 

COUNTERING THE UPPERCUT, 11] 
Combination Punches 

BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN.............. 113 


LEFT. JAB—RIGuHT Cross, 113 


Lert JAB—RIGHT Cross—LeEFrt Hook, 114 


LEFT JAas—Upprpercut, 115 

Lert Jas—Uprrercut—Lzrt Hook, 115 
LEFT JAB—LEFT Hook, 116 © 

RIGHT TO Bopy—LezFt Hook To Cun, 116 


The Art and Science of Boxing 
BY ROCKY MARCIANO 
INFIGHTING, 120 


FEINTING, 121 
DEFENSIVE Boxine, 122 











CONTENTS 


The Art of Infighting 


BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN ...........- 


SHortT MEn, 125 
TALL Men, 125 
THINGS TO REMEMBER, 127 


The Art of Fenting 


BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN...........--- 


How To FEINT, 129 
TYPES OF FEINTs, 130 
THINGS TO REMEMBER, 131 


The Art of Defensive Boxing 


BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN ...........- 


THe Ciincu, 134 
CovERING Up, 135 


Sparring 


BY CHARLEY GOLDMAN ........---. 


EQUIPMENT FOR SAFE SPARRING, 138 
SPARRING PARTNERS, 141 
AFTER SPARRING, 141 


xvii 





CONTENTS 


16 


17 


18 


19 


XVill 


Tramng for Boxing Competition 
BY ROCKY MARCIANO 


Simple Boxing Tips 
BY ROCKY MARCIANO 


BOXING IN ACTUAL 
COMBAT 
ae 


PART THREE 


Tall Boxer vs. Shorter Opponent 


BY ROCKY MARCIANO., 
AND CHARLEY GOLDMAN............ 153 


Short Man vs. Taller Opponent 


BY ROCKY MARCIANO 
AND CHARLEY GOLDMAN ........... - 161 

















20 


21 


22 


23 


CONTENTS 


CHAMPION AGAINST 
CHAMPION 


PART FOUR 


How We Would Whip Floyd 
Patterson 


BY ROCKY MARCIANO 
AND CHARLEY GOLDMAN ...... ere: 169 


SPECIAL NoTE, 182 
PART FIVE SIMPLE JUDO 


Introduction to Judo 
BY AL BACHMAN ........000ee0es .. 189 


Safe Judo 


BY AL BACHMAN .......ccecceeeees 193 


Judo for Self-defense and 
Army Combat 
BY AL BACHMAN ........00eeeeeeee 197 


~ 





Ld 
rs 
oO 
— 
fa 4 
< 
Q. 








G 























CHAPTER I 


BY 


Physical 


Fitness MARCIANO 


Tex OLYMPIC GAMES ARE 
recognized by amateur athletes in almost every field of 
sports today as the top rung on the athletic ladder. In the 
Olympics, the best amateur athletes are picked to represent 
their country in international competition. Every man who 
has ever held a spot on the United States Olympic team has 
realized the honor that was paid to him. It was a tribute 
both to his physical fitness and to his skill as an athlete. 


- 


THE WHY OF PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Physical fitness has always been a characteristic of the 
Olympics—from the time of Ancient Greece right up to the 


3 








PHYSICAL FITNESS 


present day. But the exact way in which it has been 
characteristic has changed some over the years. 

Today, the physical condition of an Olympic athlete is 
mostly a credit to himself. In the days when the Olympics 
began, the physical fitness of an athlete was a credit to the 
nation he represented. | 

In Ancient Greece young men were taken from their 
families and placed in schools supervised by the state. Here 
they began a rigid routine of physical training, for in those 
days weakness was a disgrace. 

The average curriculum was enough to toughen up the 
weakest: up at the crack of dawn for an ice-cold dip in the 

nearest lake or the sea; after the dip, back to the encamp- 
‘ment for a morning meal of light, natural foods—fruit and 
grains. Then each trainee would pick up his javelin or spear 
and go with his unit to the practice field for marksmanship 
instruction. Following this came long marathon runs, tugs- 
of-war, sham battles, and wrestling. At the end of this 
rugged routine, the well-conditioned lads went to their 
classroomis before the evening meal—and meals in those 
times were a far cry from the soft, refined foods we are 
subjected to today. This went on from day to day, with 
plenty of sleep in between. 

This kind of training produced nations of physically fit 
men—men who were capable of taking part in some of the 
finest athletic competition the world has ever seen; men 
who filled out the ranks of the fine armies that made Greece 
so respected. 


A 








PHYSICAL FITNESS 


I hardly have to point out that life as practiced by the 
ancient Greeks is both impractical and impossible in our 
times. Schools today teach trades and professions that pre- 
pare students for their future lives, and rightly so. But this 
is no excuse for physical neglect. | 

In our present school system, gym classes are for the 
most part inadequate. In most cases they are unfair to the 
majority of students. To preserve the prestige of the school 
and to satisfy the alumni, physical directors and coaches 
are forced to turn out a handful of “star” performers. If the. 
sports director does not come up with an impressive record, 
he is replaced. Consequently, the physical education de- 
partment devotes most of its time to a comparative few. 
Many of these students are pampered and fussed over for 
no reason other than the fact that they were blessed by 
heredity with natural strength. The rest of the students— 
those who are more likely in need of physical training—are 
left to drift for themselves. Thus, physical fitness becomes 
less a credit to our system of training and more a credit to 
the body an individual athlete was born with. 

If every school in our country would open a special de- 
partment for the correction of physical defects and weak- 
nesses, we could raise our personal and national physical 
standards immeasurably. It is disgraceful but true that one 
out of every three men examined for service in World War 
II was rejected as unfit. With correct nutritional and physi- 
cal guidance, most of these young men could have been 
saved from physical disintegration. — 





PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Over the years, my position in sports has brought me in 


contact with many young men who are products of a mis- 
guided program of physical education. Sometimes, for 
various reasons, things have managed to work out all right 
for them. Often they have not. Let’s take a look at two of 
these young men. I think their stories will show that a poor 
program can hurt the natural athlete just as much as it can 
hurt the physically unfit student. 

One physically gifted boy—I'll call him Johnny Jones— 
was his high school’s most remarkable athlete. Basketball, 
baseball, football came natural to him. He was a good 
dancer, confident in himself, and popular with the girls. 
But he gave so much time to his extracurricular activities 
that he neglected his foremost duty to himself—prepara- 
tion for his future. He was so wrapped up in the successes 
that came so easy to him in sports that he overlooked the 
primary reason for going to school. His marks were poor: 
he had not real interest in anything but sports. At gradua- 
tion time he accepted his diploma to the cheers of his class- 
mates. He left school—he thought—on top of the world. 

But what is going to happen to him now? J ohnny is a 
good athlete, but he isn’t quite good enough to make a solid 


place for himself in professional athletics. He suddenly — 


feels terribly alone. There are no grandstands to cheer him 
on, No winsome coeds to admire him. When he began hunt- 
ing for a job, he found there was nothing he was actually 
fitted for except, perhaps, manual labor! This great athlete 
of high school, whose physical ability developed at the 


6 





PHYSICAL FITNESS 


expense of his mental ability, may have to face a castabout 
existence for the rest of his life. 

There are many cases such as Johnny’s, many young 
men who have gone the same way. It is a shame so many 
must make the same mistake. 

In direct contrast to Johnny Jones is a boy who wound 
up with a problem just as bad. Let’s call him Michael 
Meek. In high school young Mike had some athletic ability, 
but he didn’t care for the rough competition of school 
sports. Where Johnny Jones was gifted with natural 
strength, Mike was gifted with a high natural intelligence. 
While Johnny was spending every minute of his spare time 
in the gym or on the playing field, Mike was trudging home 
with an armload of books. Weekdays and weekends were 
spent studying, either at home or in the library. In one way 
it was paying off for Mike—his marks put him near the top 
of his class. But he seemed to bé growing spindlier and 
gawkier every day. He became shy, and he was never seen 
at any of the social affairs of the school. 

At.college Mike stuck pretty much to the same pattern. 
His mental ability developed at the expense of his general 
health. He graduated at the head of his class—a strong 
brain in. a weak body. 

But when it came to applying for a job, he found himself 
just as badly off as Johnny. Although he was far above the 

other applicants in mental ability, he was so far below them 
in physical condition that no one would take the chance of 


employing him. Today he spends his time studying and 


7 





PHYSICAL FITNESS 


making the rounds. His health is getting worse, and his in- 
telligence is being wasted. 

Both Johnny and Mike have lost confidence in them- 
selves. Johnny avoids people who used to know him when 
he was the most popular boy in his class, because he doesn’t 
want them to see him now. Mike is so ashamed of his physi- 
cal condition that he keeps to himself almost all the time. 
How much more fruitful their lives would be now if they 
had made a healthy compromise in the early years, when it 
really counted. _ 7 

Lack of confidence is something that goes hand-in-hand 
with poor physical condition, right from the beginning. 
Psychologists call it the “inferiority complex,” and they 
claim it can usually be traced back to childhood. We’ve all 
seen cases of the little guy who is always picked last when 
his playmates are choosing sides for baseball or football. 
It makes no difference what his brain-power is; when it 
comes to athletics, he just doesn’t have it. The humiliation 
he feels is a direct result of his physical shortcomings. And 
the loss of confidence—the feeling of inferiority—only 
makes things worse. He becomes afraid to take chances, 
afraid that if he tries to compete he will be laughed at even 
more. Had he been gifted with natural strength, he would 
have been able to keep up with the gang and would have 
had a chance to develop self-confidence. Instead, he lost his 
Tespect for himself—and that feeling is rarely outgrown, 
even in manhood. This situation alone should be enough to 
prove the value of bodybuilding. | 


8 











PHYSICAL FITNESS 


But there are other reasons even more obvious. Some 
jobs naturally require a certain amount of strength. If the 
applicant doesn’t have it, he loses out before he even starts. 
This holds particularly true in jobs where one has to start 
at the bottom and work up. 

Even brain work requires the ability to “take it.” In 
itself, a long session of brain work can be plenty tiring. 
But the brain won’t operate at all when the body is physi- 
cally exhausted. Good physical condition is particularly a 
“must” for anyone who plans to work and study at the same 
time. | 

Finally, it must be remembered that a sound body is the 
best protection a man can have when it comes to resisting 
sickness and disease. Many a man who has managed a 
good start in spite of physical shortcomings has found him- 
self stopped cold on the road to success by illnesses that a 
healthier man would have shaken off. 


GETTING STARTED 


Maybe you've noticed that most rugged men have per- 
formed a good deal of manual labor in their early youth. 
It may have been woodchopping, ditch-digging, removing 
tree stumps, pitching hay, or any number of other jobs that 
require lots of physical exertion. 

But even if you consider yourself physically capable of 
performing these tough—and toughening—tasks right 


9 











PHYSICAL FITNESS 


now, you might find that you don’t have the facilities. So, 
when starting out on your bodybuilding program, you must 
build your foundation on‘simple and easy exercises. 

When young boxers begin to train and fight, they are 
matched against fighters of approximate experience. ‘They 
can only absorb so much knowledge each time out. To put 
a green lad in with a boxer who has years of training and 
experience behind him—“rushing’—would prove disas- 
trous. In both boxing and training, “haste makes waste.” 
The internal muscles and organs must be developed on par 
with the voluntary muscles—the biceps, triceps, and so 
forth. 

The next chapter, “The Human Body,” will be handled 
by the man who trained me for the Heavyweight Cham- 
pionship of the World—Charley Goldman. Charley has 


been called the finest trainer in the boxing world by people | 


who have seen them all. The routine he outlines for you in 
this book is backed by his years of experience. The cham- 
pions who have used it can testify for it. 

Getting the body in top shape is the first step to success 
in any sport, and boxing is no exception. Understanding 
the way the body works and the care that must be taken of 
it are the first-steps. From there we move into exercises, 
free-hand at first and then with a weighted object. This will 
enable us to develop progressive resistance. Every week the 
work becomes a trifle harder in line with the extent of de- 
velopment, to insure that we will not strain ourselves. 


10 














PHYSICAL FITNESS 
BUILDING YOUR OwN APPARATUS 


Commercial bodybuilding apparatus is a convenience 


for exercising, but not a necessity. Barbells and dumbbells 


aré expensive to buy. Those of you who do not wish to in- 
vest in them can make your own at little or no expense. 

A barbell is an adjustable dumbbell. It consists of a long 
steel bar weighing from fifteen to twenty pounds. About a 
foot from each end of the bar are placed equal weights in 
the form of iron plates, varying in weight from one and 
one-quarter to-twenty-five pounds. Sets used in competitive 
weight-lifting meets weigh as much as seven-hundred 
pounds when fully loaded. Frankly, however, I neither ex- 
pect nor hope that any of you will take up competitive 
weightlifting. ’ve seen far too many overdeveloped people. 
Too much of any one type of exercise is bad. 

How to build a sandbag-on-a-stick. First, take two long, 
stout sticks or pipes about four or five feet in length. You 
will need one for exercising the legs and one for exercising 
the arms. Now take a strip of nonporous canvas. Lay the 
canvas on the floor and place the pipe on it. Make sure that 
the canvas is shorter than the pipe so that when the canvas 
is closed the ends of the pipe will act as handles. 

Now distribute sand, gravel, or some other heavy ma- 
terial evenly along the pipe. Wrap the covering around the 
pipe and tie it securely, making sure that the filler does not 
leak out the ends. | 


11 











PHYSICAL FITNESS PHYSICAL FITNESS 


Se ildi : 
= Building a sandbag 


The equipment needed for making 
dumbbells. Ci OG a 


TIN CANS PIPE 


CEMENT 


f=) 


COMPLETED 
DUMBBELL 


on-a-stick is simple 
with this equipment. 





_ How to make hand-pulleys or chest-weights. Chest- 
otis can be made with a couple of clothesline pulleys, 
some strong sash cord, a couple of rings or sticks for 

_ handles, and a lead weight or brick for the weighted object. 


PULLEYS 













a? 7 Sfay eh : 


SOC Pad 
nS © B 


SO eee 
Soe or aa £3 = va 


CANVAS PEBBLES PIPE 








2 OO 


aa HANDLES 





BOUND PIPE 


How to make dumbbells. Take two identically sized tin 
cans, some cement, and a short lead pipe. Fill one of the 
cans with cement and stand the pipe in it. When the cement 
has hardened, do the same with the other end. Be sure to 
leave enough room between the cans for the handle. 


Hand-pulleys or chest weights 
round out your homemade 





gymnasium. 


12 13 





oi meme Gs 


rr re enact serra 


rrr atte tame ce PIR 

















PHYSICAL FITNESS 


How to make a barbell. Take two identical tin cans a 
size or two larger than those used for making dumbbells, 
some cement, and a long lead pipe. Follow instructions for 
making dumbbells. The total weight of the complete bar- 
bell should be about 25 pounds. 


14 





CHAPTER 2 


The 
Al uman 


/ Body 


BY 
CHARLEY 
GOLDMAN 


Hw: YOU EVER STOPPED 


to watch a bricklayer at work? If you have, you’ve prob- 


ably been impressed by the materials he uses. In terms of 
strength, they don’t amount to very much—bricks, sand, 
water, and cement. But put these materials together and 
you can have a twenty-story building that will support tre- 
mendous weight or a wall that will stop a tank. The 
strength of the whole, when properly arranged, is much 
greater than the strength of the parts. 


15 























THE HUMAN BODY 


THE ORGANS OF THE BODY 


The human body is also made up of many small parts. 
These parts, which cannot be seen without a microscope, 
are called cells. Like the grains of sand or the bricks in a 
wall, they can’t accomplish very much by themselves. But 


" when they work together they form organs that are capable 
of performing herculean tasks. The heart, lungs, brain,_——- 


stomach, bones, muscles, and skin are formed from count- 
less numbers of these minute cells. 

Young athletes frequently make the mistake of stressing 
well-developed muscles in physical conditioning, to the ex- 
clusion of the other organs of the body. They forget that 
muscles are only a few of the “bricks” in the human phy- 
sique. The health of any single organ of the body is depend- 
ent upon the health of all the others. The voluntary muscles 
are nourished by food fed into the blood stream by the 
stomach. And, in turn, these muscles are used to earn the 
food that we eat. 

Imagine yourself asleep in bed one morning when the 
alarm clock suddenly goes off, signaling that it is time to 
get up. An impulse from the brain, transmitted through the 
nerves to your voluntary muscles, commands them to force 
the body into an upright position. Those muscles need 
energy to operate. This is supplied by sugars transported 
by the blood through the circulatory system. 

How does the sugar get into the blood? The sugar origi- 
nally may have been starch. When we eat starches, our di- 


16 









OE Ce 


THE HUMAN BODY 


gestive system breaks the raw product into sugar with the 
help of enzymes found in the digestive juices. It enters the 
blood and is pumped throughout the body by the heart. 
If the heart should stop pumping, the body will die. 

This gives you a rough idea of the way our organs de- 
pend on one another. It is easy to see why we must keep 
all of them in perfect condition. This involves not only 
proper food and diet, but also correct exercising, internal 
and external. Proper exercise of the voluntary muscles 
keeps the blood stream purer by improving the circulation 
of the blood, thereby cleansing the skin and internal 
organs. I'he muscles develop faster, remain toned up, 
throw off waste products and poisons more easily, and 
recuperate from fatigue and bruises more readily. In exer- 


-cising the muscles, this very important fact should be kept 


in mind: The external muscles must not be built up at the 
expense of the internal ones. To try to do so may produce 
very dangerous conditions. 


NATURAL STRENGTH EXPLAINED 


The mysterious and often misunderstood factor of he- - 


redity guides the growth of the human body. Two boys 
from different families—or even from the same family— 
may be raised under identical conditions of diet, exercise, 
and work. Nevertheless, the color of their eyes and hair, 
their stature, their strength, and their characters may differ 
greatly. Geries, which are microscopic parts of our cells, 


17 





+ 
ree es sess 5p oar — _ — 
ee ee Fcc apt cmt i ay 






































THE HUMAN BODY 


determine even before birth how our bodies will grow and 
respond to the environment. 

You may have seen boys of remarkable physique who 
have never done any sizable amount of work in their lives. 
You wonder how this splendid development can be ac- 


counted for. Heredity supplies the answer. A healthy he- 


redity gave these lucky youths the kind of organs and 
muscles that respond very favorably to a moderate amount 
of good food and exercise. Their internal organs are strong; 
they digest food easily, replace worn out tissue rapidly, and 
therefore have quick recuperative power of fatigue and 
illness. 

Other individuals, despite the fact that they live under 
ideal environmental conditions, may find progress slow 
and difficult. If you fall into this category, you should not 
become discouraged. Something can be done about it. 
Good results will come with time and effort, provided that 
the correct training routine is followed conscientiously. 
Usually nothing good comes easy. Many boxing cham- 


pions have reached the top only after heartbreaking experi- 
ences. Had they quit when discouraged, they never would 


have made it. 

_ Natural strength is not essential. An individual who is 
not blessed with it can—with ambition and hard work— 
surpass many who are. People who do have talent often do 
not develop it, and it withers away through disuse. A 


_ strong, healthy person who ignores the rules of nature will 


eventually pay for his neglect. 
18 











Be 
a 
. \ ‘ 
RK 

: 
By 
aq 
& 


THE HUMAN BODY 


THE DIET 


Rocky Marciano was one of the most determined boxers 
I’ve ever known. He would train and train, and when he 
was finished training, train some more. No athlete ever 
took better care of himself than Rocky, and that was the 
difference in the close ones. He was willing to make any 
sacrifice to win the title. His kind of conditioning marks 
the champion in any sport. 

The goal and method Rocky set for himself supply the 
key needed for success in any field: Find out what has to 


be done, and then do it. The majority of us will reap bene- 


fits only in proportion to the amount of effort we put into 
the goal we are seeking. 

The first step in developing our bodies is to see that we 
eat correctly. To insure good health we have to have the 
right food at the proper time. Before the coming of the 
white man, the natives of the Hawaiian Islands never used 
a toothbrush, and yet had perfect teeth. However, when 


they were “blessed” with civilization—which changed their 


former diet of fruit, fish, and roots to one of pastries, 
candy, and overly processed foods—their health soon took 
a turn for the worse. Their once-clear complexions became 
blotchy and acned. Their teeth, once pearly white and free 
of cavities, lost their sparkle and in many cases became 
ridden with caries. 


Pee plain, natural foods whenever possible will 


9 












































THE HUMAN BODY 


greatly raise our standards of health. It is important to 
those who wish to maintain good health to give up candies, 
sodas, and such devitalized foods as white flour and the 
cakes and pies made from them. Alcoholic beverages must 
also be avoided. These foods supply us with little.of the 
things we.really need. For the most part they slow us down 
and add to fatigue. | 
Use this list to determine what foods you should eat: 
PooR Goop 
White bread » Whole-wheat bread, pumper- 
Refined cereal products nickel | | 
Cakes, pies, cookies 100% whole-grain cereals 
Candies and sweets Cakes made from whole- 
Sodas wheat or graham flour 
Raisins and honey 
Milkshakes 


Whenever preventative measures are available, there is 
no excuse for run-down physical condition. Our cities are 
crowded with individuals who are growing old before their 
time, and to a great extent constant misuse of the body is 
to blame. These haggard-looking people are tired and 
worn-out. Their bodies are flabby, their posture is poor, 
and their teeth are decayed. They took no care to prevent 
these things from happening, and they are doing nothing 
to correct them. And these conditions can be corrected. 
If you have been guilty of incorrect diet and poor living 


20 








Lunch 


THE HUMAN BODY 
habits, now is the time to reform. You will notice a favor- 
able change within a few weeks. 

Here is a good, typical weekly diet: 


MONDAY 


Breakfast Orange juice (freshly squeezed) ; oatmeal with 
milk or cream; two scrambled eggs (in but- 
ter); buttered whole-wheat toast; warm milk 
flavored with chocolate syrup. 


Lunch Bowl of vegetable soup; lettuce-and-tomato 
sandwich on pumpernickel bread; glass of 
milk; graham crackers spread with honey. 


Supper Half grapefruit; roastbeef (large slice); pear- 
and-lettuce salad; fresh vegetables (carrots 
and peas ) ; baked Idaho potato; pumpernickel 


or whole-wheat bread; stewed prunes; hot 
cocoa (made with milk). 


TUESDAY 


Breakfast Tomato juice; bowl of whole-wheat flakes 
cereal (sprinkled with raisins ) ; cream or milk; 


poached eggs on whole-wheat toast; hot choco- 
late (made with milk). 


Half grapefruit; vegetable cream-cheese on 


pumpernickel; milkshake with graham crack- 
ers. 


210 









































THE HUMAN BODY 


Supper 


Breakfast 


Lunch 


Supper 


Breakfast 


22 


Fresh-fruit cocktail; two large broiled lean 
lamb chops; creamed spinach, buttered beets; 
pumpernickel or whole-wheat bread; lettuce- 


and-tomato salad with olive oil and vinegar — 


dressing; peaches and cream; hot milk with 


chocolate flavoring. 


WEDNESDAY 


Freshly squeezed grapefruit juice; cooked 
whole-grain cereal with milk or cream— 
sweeten with honey; two medium-boiled eggs; 
pumpernickel toast; hot chocolate made with 
milk. 


Cream-of-spinach soup; baked ham on pum- 
pernickel with lettuce and slice of tomato; 
stewed prunes and apricots; chocolate-flavored 
whole milk. 


Large glass orange juice (freshly squeezed) ; 
broiled steak; fresh peas, corn-on-the-cob; 
sliced pineapple; whole-milk cocoa. 


| THURSDAY 


Pineapple juice, with ¥2 lemon juice added, 
oatmeal sweetened with honey, plus milk or 
‘cream; two eggs (any style); whole-wheat 
toast; hot milk with chocolate flavoring. 





Lunch 


Supper 


Breakfast 


Lunch 


Supper 7 


Breakfast 


THE HUMAN BODY 


Sliced orange; American cheese and lettuce 


and tomato on pumpernickel; milkshake with 
graham crackers. 


Vegetable-beef soup; baked Virginia ham; 
baked yams in jackets (eat all) and broccoli; 


_ stewed pears; hot chocolate (made with milk). 


FRIDAY 


Fresh orange and grapefruit juice; whole- 
wheat flake cereal with raisins and milk or 
cream; two medium boiled eggs; whole-wheat 


toast; milk. 


Fish chowder; vegetable plate; Jello with 
whipped cream; milkshake. 


Half cantaloupe; baked mackerel; whole- 
wheat bread; baked potato and string beans; 
brown rice and raisin pudding; glass of milk. 


SATURDAY 


Prune juice (with lemon) ; cooked whole-grain 


cereal with milk, sweetened with honey; two 


soft-boiled eggs; whole-wheat toast; hot choco- 
late milk. | 


- Green pea soup; cold roast beef and tomato on 


pumpernickel; milk with whole-wheat cookies. 


23 




















THE HUMAN BODY 


Supper Tomato juice (lemon added); roast leg of 
lamb; string beans, mashed potatoes; combi- 
nation salad; hot chocolate made with milk. 


SUNDAY 


Breakfast Large grapefruit juice (fresh); whole-grain 

(brunch) flake cereal with raisins and milk; two eggs, 
any style, with Canadian bacon; hot cocoa 
made with milk. : 


Dinner Fresh. fruit cup; vegetable and lentil soup; 
roast turkey or chicken; spinach, squash, 
baked potato; lettuce-and-tomato salad with 
olive oil and vinegar dressing; sliced pine- 
apple; milk and graham crackers. 


This is an ideal weekly menu for the physical culturist 
of moderate means. Using it as an example, it will be easy 
to substitute foods of corresponding nutritional value. 
Good foodstuffs such as whole milk, whole-grain breads 
and cereals, and fresh fruits and vegetables will add 1m- 
measurably to your chances of quick and successful results. 

Eating between meals dulls your appetite and prevents 
you from really enjoying your regular meals. Condiments 
and spices are not good for the stomach. Iced water in the 


summer when one is overheated greatly shocks the body. | 


Acid indigestion or heartburn are greatly encouraged by a 
diet rich in starch or acidy foods, such as breads, cakes, 


24 











THE HUMAN BODY 


meats, candies, eggs, and so forth. We need those foods, 
but we must balance them with alkaline-producing foods 
such as fruits, vegetables, and milk. If you keep a high 
alkaline balance in your body, you will feel better and have 
a higher resistance to disease. You will not tire so easily 
and will be relatively free from gastric disturbances. 


THE IMPORTANCE OF Goop Foop 


Food is needed by the human body for three reasons: 
(1) energy;. (2) growth—material to build and repair 
muscle cells; and (3) upkeep—tmaterial to regulate and 
protect the working of the system. — 

A motor and the human body both require energy to go. 
In the body the energy is derived from the food we eat. 
The more and harder work we subject our body to, the 
higher the demand for fuel or energy. | 

Fuel foods. These are mainly carbohydrates (starches 


and sugars) and fats which are found in the following 
foods: | : 


Starches | Sugars Fats 

Bread Molasses Butter 

Crackers Honey Cream 

Cereals Dried fruits Lard 

Tapioca Sugar Olive and corn oil 
Spaghetti | 
Potato 


25 





champagne 








sy THE HUMAN BODY 
HE HUMAN BO — 
" dybuilding foods. These are necessary for replacing cream, salmon, liver, butter, milk, egg yolk, cheese, and 
O y ° . i i i ° 
tissues and for furnishing material for growth. Pro kidneys 7 | | 
worn me for the food component which is It is found in such vegetables and fruits as spinach, kale, 
tein is the aa =a fopscic teplen hie. peas, peppers, lettuce, broccoli, Swiss chard, tomatoes, 
used mainly ae ‘ Sates en cere , Snap beans, sweet potatoes, cabbage, bananas, carrots, 
The main bodybul 


TT 


| yams, yellow squash, beet greens, brussel sprouts, oranges, 
Meats Dried peas and beans a pineapple, and asparagus. 

Fish Gelatin oe : Vitamin B is needed for growth and health. It stimulates 

| | Poultry . Whole-grain cereals pens the appetite. Its lack can cause disease of the nerves and 
Eggs Milk restlessness. 


Minerals. We need minerals to protect and regulate the | 
: processes of the body. ‘The principal minerals and the foods 
they are found most abundantly in are: 


‘It is found in such animal products as milk, egg yolk, 
liver, oysters, kidneys, brains, and lean pork. 


It is found in such vegetables and fruits as broccoli, 








‘It is also found in legumes, (plants which have nodules 
on roots): beans, lentils, dried peas, peanuts. 

Vitamin. C is needed daily, because it cannot be stored 
in the body for any appreciable length of time. It builds up 
resistance to infections and speeds up the healing of 
wounds and bruises. A lack of this precious vitamin can 

cause the notorious disease called SCUIVy. 

It is found in the following foods: oranges, peaches, 
strawberries, onions, lemons, bananas, melons, potatoes 


| lodine spinach, tomatoes, peas, cabbage, sweet potatoes, oranges, 
Calcium Phosphorous Iron m . aad pineapple, bananas, peaches, plums, and grapes. 
Milk Cheese Egg i ’ It is found in seeds or grains as wheat; corn, rye, oats, 

: Dried frut : 
Cheese Egg yolk barley. | 
Leafy vege- » Milk oe ——— It is found in nuts, such as almonds, chestnuts, brazil 
. tables vo 
: tables : nuts, pecans. 
Eee yolk Meat _ Meat 


Whole grains Whole grains 





Vitamins. Vitamins are the mysterious elements ae 
+n all foods which are necessary for proper growth an 
health. sO Le | | 
Vitamin A helps growth and vitality, protects against 
diseases of the eye, nose, throat and lungs, and certain 


lands. a 
; It is found in such animal products as cod liver oil, 





| 27 
“96 























THE HUMAN BODY 


(new), grapefruit, pineapple, green beans, fresh meats, 
limes, raspberries, green peas, cucumbers, tangerines, cur- 
rants, spinach, beets, greens, apples, cabbage, rhubarb, 
and asparagus. 

Vitamin D is needed to utilize calcium for making strong 
bones and is found in the following foods: cod liver oil, 
milk, salmon, egg yolks, butter, and oysters. 


28. 








CHAPTER 3 


The Use 
of the Body 


in Boxing 


BY 
ROCKY 
MARCIANO 


Te: WAY IN WHICH AN ATH- 
con uses his body i is determined by the sport he’s engaged 
in. A golfer, a skier, and a boxer use their arms, shoulders, 


and so forth in different ways, because each of them has a 


different object in mind. In the next chapter, Charley Gold- 
man will present exercises designed to develop different 
parts of the body. But before we go into these exercises, 


~ Td like to point out just how this Bee pueue) is related to 


boxing. 


29 


USE OF THE BODY IN BOXING 





Skiing uses different muscles than boxing does. 


No two boxers fight in exactly the same way. Each one 
has his own individual style. But generally speaking, there 


is a basic pattern to the way any boxer uses his body in the | 


ring. 


THE ARMS 


Strong and well-developed arms play an obvious part in 
the sport of boxing. Offensively, it is the arms that search 
out our opponent’s weak spots and deliver the punches that 
hurt him. The arms are the “middlemen” in boxing. ‘They 
transmit the power of the body and the quick thinking of 
the brain into the gloved fists that do the actual damage. 
sale: arms help to deliver a fast, hard blow. 

The arms have an important defensive. function, also. 
When punches are thrown at you, you use your arms to 

30 








| USE OF THE BODY IN BOXING. 
absorb the shock or deflect it. Weak arms wouldn’t be able 
to take this kind of punishment very long. Not only would | 
they lose their punching power, but they would also lose 


their ability to protect the rest of the body. An arm-weary 
boxer can neither attack nor defend. 


THE STOMACH 


‘Have you ever stopped to admire statues of the gods in 


Greek and Roman mythology? What was the section of 


the anatomy that first caught your eye? Probably it was 
the abdominals. These are usually the most impressive part 
of a good physique. The stomach of a well-conditioned 
athlete has a corded or washboard appearance. 

Strong stomach muscles and walls are as necessary to a 
boxer as armor plate is to a tank. The middle regions of 
the body are very vulnerable to an opponent’s punches. 
They are a massive and usually stationary target. Behind 
those muscles are many sensitive organs that must be pro- 
tected. A weak stomach can prove to be the downfall of 
any boxer. A chopping punch to the stomach can cause 
internal injuries to a poorly conditioned abdomen or can 
knock the wind out of a fighter, leaving him temporarily 
defenseless. 


SHOULDERS 


For effective punching the shoulders have to be both . 
strong and pliable. This combination gives power and 


31 


USE OF THE BODY IN BOXING 


_ speed to the arms as they pivot from the shoulders. It takes 
many sessions of practice to get these muscles pliable, but 
the result is well worth it. 

The shoulders are also used to block punches thrown 
at you. The “padding” must be tough and solid to take this 
kind of pressure, even when the shoulders are not bulky. 
Blows aimed at the chin are often stopped by the shoulders 
as a part of defense action. 


THE CHEST 


Men in the boxing profession can pretty well size. up 
the condition of a newcomer by looking at his chest. If it 
is large and well-developed, it is almost certain that the 
_ boy is in good shape. If the chest region is flat and puny, 
the chances are that he won’t be able to stand the rigors of 
the ring. If the chest structure is large, but the covering 
muscles are flat or flabby, it is a sign that the individual 
was gilted with natural strength but has not taken care of 
himself. | 

Chest muscles protect the lungs and heart, both vulner- 
able organs. The size of the rib- -cage also determines, to a 
large extent, the breathing capacity of a boxer. Aman with 
a small chest structure is apt to become winded easily. A 
healthy set of lungs in a well-developed chest is the motor 
center that supplies the endurance needed in a tough box- 
ing bout. ° 


32 











USE OF THE BODY IN BOXING 


THE NECK 


The neck is a great shock absorber. When a boxer is 
clipped on the chin by a hard punch, he feels the jolt in 
his neck. A weak neck would finish the career of any boxer. 

A strong, flexible neck is also necessary for avoiding 
punches aimed at the head. The weaker the neck, the more 
stationary the head is as a target. No boxer who is repeat- 
edly and easily hit hard about the head will last long. 


4 3 THE CALVES 


The springboard—or “underpinning” as it is sometimes 
called in boxing circles—is the calf. In a boxing bout of 
any length, the legs perform thousands of movements— 
many more than are required of the arms. A boxer’s calves 


have to last as long as the bout does. 


If you’ve ever stood in a ring, you know how it feels 
beneath your feet. The average ring is well padded and 
somewhat soft to the touch. Feet sink in on this kind of 
surface. You could almost compare it to a runner sprint- 
ing on a mud track instead of a hard, cinder one. Padding 
like this will soon tire any individual with weak calf mus- 
cles and leave him an easy prey to an advancing opponent. 

The calves are only two of the many muscles that make 
up the legs. But they are two of the most important ones. 
A boxer punches with his entire body. Springy calf muscles 


play a major part in catapulting a punch toward another 
boxer. | 


33 























\ 
USE OF THE BODY IN BOXING 
THE LEGS 


In the sporting world, there is a common term used to 
describe fading athletes: “His legs are gone!” This means 
that he has lost the energy and power needed to coordinate 
the legs with the rest of the body. 

The lower part of the human torso is used more than the 
other muscles of the body by the average man. Walking, 
standing, climbing, and so forth keep the legs in continual 
strain for a good part of the day. They need to be in good 
condition to support the rest of the body. 

Footwork is an important phase of a boxer’s trade in the 
ring. Notice how a skillful boxer will glide around or stalk 
his opponent. As he moves away from his opponent’s leads 
by shifty footwork, he may suddenly spot an opening. He 
steps in quickly, braces his feet on the canvas, and with a 
pivoting movement of the legs in coordination with the 
trunk and shoulders drives his arm out like a piston. A 
thud—and the fight is over! - 

The legs are a key factor in other sports, as well. On the 
baseball diamond and the golf links the drive starts from 
the feet up. Working in unison with the rest of the body, the 
legs supply the blast of power that makes for home-runs 

and three-hundred-yard drives. 

Although the fist delivers the actual blow that drops.an 
opponent to the canvas in boxing, it is the pivoting and the 
driving from the legs that enable us to send out short, hard, 


34 























USE OF THE BODY IN BOXING 


and straight punches. If the legs are weak, a boxer is at a 
great disadvantage, both offensively and defensively. 


THE BACK © 


Even padded suits can’t do much to improve the appear- 
ance of a man who has flabby, underdeveloped, or rounded 
shoulders. When the muscles of the upper back are not 
properly exercised, they tend to discontinue their job of 
supporting the shoulders. This accounts for the careless, 
droopy posture of so many men today. There’s nothing 
they can do to hide it. What they need is exercise. 

The back of the average person is called upon to do in- 
numerable tasks every day. Without a strong back, we tire 
easily. Unexpected emergencies may force us into sudden 
exertions—lifting, pulling, and so forth. If a weak back is 
strained in such efforts, it may mean suffering for days and 
sometimes for a lifetime. 

The slender, flexible bands of muscle found in the upper 
regions of the back around the shoulder blades and at the 
base of-the neck are usually the strongest muscles in the 
human body. These springy, wiry muscles greatly accentu- 
ate the average boxer’s punching power. 

The lower back must also be powerful and strong to add 
offensive force to infighting techniques and to help a boxer 


ward off the damagin g blows accidentally landed above the 
kidneys and lower regions. 


35 


CHAPTER 4 


BY 


Bodybuilding 


Exercises GOLDMAN 










i= UPPER ARM, BETWEEN 
the elbow and shoulder, is composed of two principal 
muscles: the bicep and the tricep. The lower arm, between 
the elbow and wrist, is composed of a network of smaller 
muscles. For the purpose of discussion I shall refer to this 
section as the forearm. 


DEVELOPING THE ARM 


The biceps. The bicep is the best known muscle of the 
human body. Although there are approximately five hun- 
dred muscles in the body, people are more conscious of the 
two biceps than they are of the others. The bicep is located 
in the upper-front arm between the shoulder and elbow 
joint. Its function is to bring the lower arm up to the body, 
as in lifting and so forth. 


37 


BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


EXERCISE NO. 1—BICEPS 
(The Curl) 


Take a barbell of a weight that can be handled with very little 
effort. This is very important. | 
1. Drop arms, palms facing outward, with weight directly in 


front of you, until stick rests on thighs. 
2. Brace yourself, putting shoulders back squarely, chest 


out. Looking straight ahead, breathe in. 7 
3. Bring object straight up. Touch shoulders, making sure 


elbows are not away from sides. Breath out. 


Curling with a barbell. 








BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


This exercise is usually called “the curl” by physical 
culturists. Make sure that you can handle the weight with- 
out any noticeable strain or tenseness. We want to start 
with a gradual routine and work up slowly. It is very im- 
portant to obey all instructions, no matter how trivial or 
unimportant they may seem. All the theories are tried and 
tested and will point out to you the shortest way to safe 
development. It will also help if you look into the mirror 
when working out. This. coordination between your mental 
and physical powers will aid immeasurably in your physi- 
cal program. 


EXERCISE NO. 2—BICEPS 
(The Two-Arm Pullup) 
1. Bend forward from the waist. Hold barbell at the center 
with both hands touching each other, palms away from body. 
2. Pull weight up to chin, breathing in. 
3. Return arms to original position, breathing out. 


The two-arm pullup. 





BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


EXERCISE NO. 3—BICEPS 
(Reverse Curl with Dumbbells) 


1. Take a dumbbell in each hand. Drop hands to sides, palms 
facing backward. | 

2. Draw weights up to shoulders. Keep palms facing away 
from body. Breathe in. 

3. Return dumbbell to original position. Breathe out. 


EXERCISE NO. 4—BICEPS 
(Chinning on Bar) 
1. Hang from bar, palms facing away from body, feet to- 
gether, body straight but not tense. | 


2. Pull body up so that chin is over bar. Breathe in. 
3. Return to original position, breathing out. 


This exercise should not be attempted until you are in 
good enough condition to avoid overtaxing the body. 


The triceps. The triceps are the muscles found on the 
upper-back arm, opposite the biceps. When well-developed 
they have a horseshoe appearance. These are the pushing 
muscles of the arms. They force objects away from the 
body. 


EXERCISE NO. 1—TRICEPS 
(Two-Arm Military Press) 


1. Take barbell. 
_ 2. Stand erect, feet together, eyes straight ahead, chest out. 
Hold stick at shoulder level, palms facing outward. 


40 











BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


Starting position for the two-arm 
military press. 


3. Push weight directly overhead. Maintain military stance. 
Do not bend backward or look up. Breathe in. 


4. Return weight to shoulder level, breathing out in motion. 


EXERCISE NO. 2—TRICEPS 
(The Push-up ) 
1. Place two tall, strong peach baskets two to three feet 
apart, upside down. 
2. Stand about three feet from center of baskets, feet to- 
gether. Bend over and place one hand on each basket. Kick 


backward so that body is straight and supported only by arms 
and toes. | 


‘) 


4] 





BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 
3. Dip down as far as you can between the two baskets. 


Breathe in. . 
4. Push back up as far as your arms will take you. 


This exercise also builds up the chest and upper back 
muscles. If at first you find it too strenuous, do the exercise 


on the floor without the baskets. 


~ 


Starting position for the French press. 





BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


_ EXERCISE NO. 3—TRICEPS 
| (The French Press) 


_ 1. Take a weight that can be lifted above the head without 
much difficulty. | oe 

2. Hold weight directly overhead with the body in “atten- 
tion” position. | 
_ 3. Allow elbows to bend so that weight sinks behind the 
head to about the base of the neck. Elbows should point up- 
ward. 


4. Straighten out the arms, bringing the weight to original 
position. — | | 

The forearm. The forearm extends from the elbow to the 
wrist. ‘he series of muscles that comprise this part of the 
arm do the work of turning the wrist, holding, squeezing, 
and so forth. This is a difficult section to develop, but it will 
respond to patience and correct exercise. 


° EXERCISE NO. 1—FOREARMS 
(The Windup) — 


1. Take a broomstick or something similar that is free of 


‘splinters. Cut to two feet in length. Attach a mesh chain, sash 


cord,.or clothesline (three feet long) to the center of the stick. 
Place a moderate weight at the other end-of the chain or rope. 
Be sure to tie it securely. 

2. Hold the weighted stick at arm’s length. If you have 
trouble keeping your arms up, the weight is too heavy. 

3. Turn the stick slowly, winding the weight up as far as 
possible. a 

4. Unwind slowly, keeping the arms extended, until all the 
chain or rope is off the reel. 


43 


BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


If you find yourself tiring fast, reduce the poundage of 
the weight. This exercise will help you to develop both the 


wrists and the grip. 


EXERCISE NO. 2—FOREARMS 
(The Dumbbell Twist ) 
1. Take a dumbbell in each hand. Let the arms hang loosely 


at the sides. . . . ; 
2. Twist, turn, and otherwise manipulate wrist while hold 


ing the bells. 


Starting position for the dumbbell . twist. 











BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


There are a number of simpler exercises that will de- 
velop the wrists, hands, and forearms. Squeeze two sponge 
rubber balls in the hands until the muscles tighten. This 
can be done while doing roadwork. It is also helpful to try 
picking up heavy objects with the fingertips. 


DEVELOPING THE STOMACH 


Doing stomach exercises is not only a requisite to first- 
rate physical accomplishments, but is also a boon to gen- 
eral health. A strong stomach will keep the intestines in 
their normal place and will promote regularity in the elimi- 
natory and digestive processes. 

The abdominals are easy to develop. There is no excuse 
for bay-windows or skin-and-bone fronts. | 





Situps develop strong stomach muscles. 


45 


BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


| BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 
EXERCISE NO. 1—STOMACH — :. EXERCISE NO. 2—STOMACH 
| » (The Sit-Up) (Lhe Prone Fold) 
1. Sit on the floor, hands clasped behind the neck. Keep the | 1. Lie flat on the floor, hands on hips. 
legs flat on the floor. | ; 2. Bring legs directly overhead and touch the floor above the 
2. Allow the upper trunk to sink back to a prone position. = ead with the toes. 
Breathe in. 


3. Return to original sosiiba 
3. Return to original position. Breathe out. 


EXERCISE NO. 3—STOMACH 
(The Circle Twist) 
pe Stand with heels together, hands on hips. 


_ 2, Twist and turn upper body in large circular motions, first 
to the left and then to the right. 


When this exercise becomes easy, resistance must be in- 
creased progressively. Sit-on a milk case, hassock, or foot- 


stool. Place a heavy object over the ankles so that they 
cannot raise up while you exercise. 


When this in turn becomes simple, try isilatien the trunk 
from side to side while in number two position. If further 
resistance is needed, hold a weight at thé base of the neck. 






» 
\ 


aon m eT babetaiint. 4 


The side-bend. 
Make the situps more e-bena, 
difficult by sitting on a 


box. 





6 


4/ 

















BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


EXERCISE NO. 4—STOMACH 
(The Side Bend) 


1. Stand at attention with dumbbell in each hand. 
2. Lean to the right and return to original position. 
3. Lean to the left and return to original position. 


DEVELOPING THE SHOULDERS 


The two-arm press described in the arm-development 
section is an excellent shoulder exercise. Chopping wood 
and spading a garden are also fine developers. | 


EXERCISE NO. 1—SHOULDERS 
(Two-Arm Attention Movement with Dumbbells) 


1. Stand at attention, dumbbell in each hand held directly 
forward at shoulder level. 

2. Keeping arms at shoulder level, bring them to the side of 
the shoulders. Push arms back as far as they will go, thus forc- 
ing the chest outward. Breathe in. 

3. Return to original position. Breathe out. 


EXERCISE NO. 2—SHOULDERS 
(Two-Arm Butterfly with Dumbbells) 


1. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, just touching the thighs. 
2. Keeping the arms stiff, bring them out sideways until they 
are directly overhead. Keep eyes forward and breathe in while 


raising them. 
3. Return slowly to original position. Breathe out. 


A8 





BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 












Starting position for the two-arm butterfly 
with dumbbells. 





- DEVELOPING THE CHEST 


The chest box contains the heart, the lungs, and other 
organs vital to the welfare of the body. When we exercise 
heavily, we breathe very deeply, forcing the lungs to draw 
in great quantities of air. When we steadily engage in 
strenuous labor or exercise, we place a constant demand on 
the air sacs or lungs to supply us with more and more oxy- 
gen. ‘his increases the size of the lungs. The expanded 
lungs force the chest box out to make more breathing 


49 











BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


room, adding a well-rounded and manly appearance to the 
upper torso. | 

The main muscles covering the chest box are the pecto- 
rals and the serrati magni. The pectorals are those plate- 
like muscles that cover the chest. The serrati magni are 
those saw-teeth shaped muscles located on -_ upper side, 
just below the armpits. 

We develop the chest internally by developing the lungs. 
We develop it externally by developing the muscles that 
cover the chest box. 

The lungs are the filters or ednies of the air we breathe. 
They also help cleanse some of the impurities in the blood- 
stream. These two balloon-like sacs nestled in the chest 
cavity take in good air in the form of oxygen and expel 
wastes in the form of carbon dioxide. 

Developing the chest region: calls for heavy-duty ath- 
letics or exercises that require deep and forceful breathing. 
This kind of training makes use of the legs also, because the 
legs contain more than half the weight of the average body. 


EXERCISE NO. 1—CHEST 
(Roadwork) 


1. Try to do roadwork about three times a week. Wear long 
woolen underwear if possible to absorb perspiration. Get out 
into the hills and dirt roads if you live in the country, or into 
the parks or reservoir areas if you live in the city. 

2. While running or jogging, breathe deep and forcefully. 
Shadow-box to prevent the arms from becoming stiff. Bring 


50 








r . 
some A eng SE il a ame ar pe 


BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


along two sponge rubber balls to squeeze and develop your 
grip. 

3. When beginning, run or jog slowly. Keep it up until you 
start to feel a little tired; then walk briskly for a while. If you 
still feel fatigued, wait. Don’t force yourself to run when out of 


breath. Dress warmly and cover up at the completion of the 





jog, especially on cold, windy days. 

4. When you complete your run, dry your face and go di- 
rectly home. Don’t wait around or lie down outdoors. Your 
resistance may be low, and you could catch a very serious cold. 
When home, lie down with your clothes off, shoes on. After you 
are fully rested and free from perspiration, gargle with an anti- 
septic solution and take a warm shower. Stay indoors for a while. 


EXERCISE NO. 2—CHEST 
(Deep Knee Bend) 


1. Take a sandbag-on-a-stick heavier than the one used for 
the triceps exercise. Place it on the shoulders at the base of the 
neck, holding the handles with each hand. 


2. Spread the legs a little wider than the shoulders. Squat 
down with the feet flat on the floor. Breathe in. 
3. Rise up, breathing out as you do. 


EXERCISE NO. 3—CHEST 
(The Prone Dumbbell Lift) 
1. ie flat on your back, a dumbbell in each hand, arms 
straight out at the sides. 


2. Keeping the arms stiff, raise the arms above the chest until 
the bells touch. Breathe in. 


3. Lower me bells to original position. Breathe out. 


51 





BODYBUILDING EXERCISES BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


EXERCISE NO. 4—CHEST 
(The Prone Press) 


1. Take medium-weight sandbag-on-a-stick, slightly heavier 
than the one used for the military press. | 

9. Lie down on covered floor or, if available, a low, flat 
bench. | | 

3. Place weight on chest, gripping it with both hands. 

4. Force weight straight up. 

5. Lower slowly to original position. 


The neck twist. 


DEVELOPING THE NECK 





EXERCISE NO. 1—NECK 3. Pushing with the soles of the feet, force the body upward, 





(The Neck Snap) so that only the back of the head and the soles of the feet touch 
the floor. 
1. Stand at attention. 
2. Turn head sharply to the left and then back. This is an advanced exercise. It should be attempted 
3. Turn head sharply to the right and then back. only after preliminary exercises have improved the general 
EXERCISE NO. 2—-NECK condition of the body. 
(The Neck Twist ) 
1. Stand at attention with hands behind back. DEVELOPING THE CALVES 
2. Rotate head in circular motion from left to right. ; | 
3. Rotate head in circular motion from right to left. EXERCISE NO. 1—CALVES 


(The Toe Rise) 


1. Take a sandbag-on-a-stick of moderately heavy weight. 
= gto posnen in back of neck, holding with one hand on each 
side. 

2. Rise up on toes as far as possible. Breathe 1 in. 

. Return to original position. 


EXERCISE NO. 3—NECK 
(The Bridge) 


a 


1. Lie flat on mat. 


2. Bring feet up so that they touch the floor and are near the 
hips. ; 


52 


Ud 


53 























BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 
For greater benefit from this exercise, place a flat stick 
on the floor and put toes on it, keeping the rest of the foot 


on the floor. General exercises, such as running and walk- 
ing, will also. aD to develop the calves. 


DEVELOPING THE LEGS 


In contrast to the calves, the thighs are relatively easy to 
develop. Allin all, the legs still require a great deal of hard, 
earnest effort. But persistent and correct exercise will pay 
off. 

The legs of the well-developed, all-around athlete are 
usually long and smooth, not bulky and chunky. Often the 
legs of fighters or distance runners are even skinny or wiry, 
because they are constantly used without the proper rest 
needed to build tissue. However, the legs of these men be- 
come well proportioned after sufficient rest. 

Varicose veins are the result of abuse of the legs, ee 
improper diet and lack of rest. 


EXERCISE NO. 1—LEGS 
(Deep Knee Bend with Dumbbells) 


1. Stand straight with dumbbell 1 in each hand at the sides of 


the shouldets. 


2. Squat down and support yourself on the toes. While down, 


raise dumbbells to arm’s length overhead, keeping your balance. 
3. Return to standing position, keeping arms overhead. 
When upright, return bells to: shoulder level. 


54 





_ with dumbbells. 











BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


Starting position for deep knee bend 





EXERCISE NO. 2—LEGS 
(The Half Squat) 


| - Straddle a sandbag- -on-a-stick of moderately aes 


2. Squat down. With one hand in front and one hand in back, 


‘pick up stick. Stand straight. 


3. Squat down about halfway. Breathe in. 
4. Return to standing position, breathing out in the process. 


DEVELOPING THE BACK 


Many’ exercises give shapeliness and strength to the 


back. Some of the exercises already given have developed 


93 


BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


the back along with other parts of the body. For example, 
although the two-arm military press is primarily an arm 
builder, it calls upon the back for support. When you at- 
tempt the press, you hold the weight at shoulder level. Then 
you brace yourself for the overhead push. This causes you 
to tighten the side and back muscles. | 
There is a swivel-like section in the region of the hips, 
lower abdomen, and back. This section is supported by 
muscles native to the region we have just discussed. If it 


BODYBUILDING EXERCISES 


were not for the supporting action of these muscles, your 


body would bend like a slender stick trying to hold up a 
heavy weight. 


EXERCISE NO. 1—BACK 
(The Dead Lift) 





j 1. Stand straight, feet one and a half to two feet apart, with a 
' moderately heavy barbell on the floor in front of you. 
a 2. Keeping legs stiff, bend down and grasp weight. 

3. Keeping legs stiff and back tense, straighten up and lean 
backward as far as possible. Keep shoulders squared. 


EXERCISE NO. 2—BACK 
(The Dumbbell Swing) - 


1, Stand with legs two feet apart, dumbbells in between the 
feet. 


_ 2. Bend down, grasp dumbbell in each hand. Keep legs stiff. 


3. Swing arms backward over head as far as you can. Keep 


| . legs and traight. 
Keeping arms straight is important in the cgs ane arms strarg 


dead lift. 











56 


57 






































CHAPTER 5 


Plannng sy 
ROCKY 


A Schedule MARCIANO 


| | | S. FAR WE HAVE DISCUSSED 
physical fitness, shown how it is related to boxing, and out- 
lined exercises that will properly develop the main sections 


__ of the body. Now it is time for a more concrete step—plan- 
_ hing your own bodybuilding schedule. 7 


The way in which you make use of the exercises pre- 
sented by Charley Goldman is just as important as the 
exercises themselves. They have to be organized in a defi- 


nite, progressive pattern. Without a correct schedule, they 
may cause more harm than good. 


It is best to schedule three exercise periods a week, each 
at least a day apart to allow the internal organs to rebuild 


59 





PLANNING A SCHEDULE 


the tissues. A day of rest will also prevent you from going 
stale due to overtraining. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday 
make a good training plan. With this schedule, weekend 
activities won’t interrupt your routine. 

I have no way of knowing the exact physical condition of 
those of you who are about to begin this bodybuilding pro- 
gram. Some of you may be able to begin with a fairly rigor- 
ous schedule. Others would do best to start off very slowly. 
It’s more important to avoid beginning with too heavy a 
schedule than it is to avoid beginning with too light a one. 
A light schedule can be adjusted in time without any trou- 
ble. A heavy one can cause damage if you’re not ready for 
it. 

Suppose I outline the physical condition of an average 
bodybuilder—Pete Smith. I'll set up a schedule for Pete, 
and you can adjust your own schedule according to the way 
your condition compares with his. 

Pete is a lean six-footer who weighs about 137 pounds. 
He has never gone out for the athletic squads of his high 
school because his strength and weight weren’t up to it. 
However, in intramural sports he does as well as the aver- 
age participant. He would like to build up his strength and 
weight, but he doesn’t know how to go about it. The coach- 


ing staff at school is too busy with the athletic squads to 


spend much time with Pete and other boys like him. Pete 
doesn’t know anything about exercises or proper diet. 
Manual labor is impractical for him, and he doesn’t have 


60 






































PLANNING A SCHEDULE 


the money to spend on the super-development ads he sees 
in the papers and pulp magazines. 

Then he comes across this manual. First he reads it 
slowly and carefully from cover to cover. He builds a set of 
dumbbells as described in Chapter One. They weigh five 
pounds each. Then he makes two sets of sandbags-on- 
sticks, one of fifteen pounds, the other twenty-five 
pounds. When he has a little spare time, he makes a pulley 
set for some extra exercise on his day off. 

He sets aside an hour each Monday, Wednesday, and 
Friday for a thorough workout. The first week he starts 
with five movements or repetitions for each of the light- 
muscle exercises and ten repetitions for the heavy-muscle 
ones. Each week he adds another repetition to each exer- 
cise. He continues this procedure until the count reaches 
ten repetitions for the light muscles and fifteen for the 
heavy ones. In the fifth week he finds that the exercises are 
giving him little resistance. 

In order to continue his progress, he adds more weight 
to his apparatus. Working with the new weights, he begins 
his count at five and ten again. When he reaches ten and 
fifteen, he adds still more weight and goes back to five and 
ten repetitions. This method is continued throughout the 
course. 

Pete follows the diet outlined in Chapter Two as closely 
as possible. He also strives to get nine hours sleep every 
night. 

On Tuesdays and Thursdays, Pete takes a little run in 


61 





PLANNING A SCHEDULE 


the country, breathing deeply and avoiding over-exertion., 
He realizes how foolish it is to strain or rush himself, 


- Pete’s schedule for Monday, Wednesday, and Friday - 


looks something like this; 


Frrst WEEK 


Exercise Title Weight Repetitions 
No. 1—Biceps Curl 15 
No. 2—Biceps Two-Arm Pullup 15 > 2 
No. 3—-Biceps Reverse Curl with 5-5 5 

. Dumbbells 
No. 4—Biceps Chinning on Bar — 5 
No, 1—Triceps Two-Arm Military Press 25 > 
No. 2—Triceps Push Up — until tired 
No. 3—Triceps French Press 15 5 
No. 1—Forearms _  ‘Windup 5 5 . 
No. 2—Forearms Dumbbell Twist 5-5 until tired 
No. 1—Stomach Sit Up — until tired 
No. 2—Stomach Prone Fold — until tired 
No, 3—Stomach Circle Twist —. until tired 
No, 4—Stomach Side Bend 3-3 until tired 
No. 1—Shoulders Two-Arm Attention Move- 5-5 5 
ment with Dumbbells 
No. 2——Shoulders Two-Arm Butterfly ~ 5-5 5 
with Dumbbells 
No, 1—Chest Roadwork — Tuesdays and 
| Thursdays 
No. 2—Chest ~ Deep Knee Bend 25 5 
No. 3—Chest Prone Dumbbell Lift 5—5 5 
No. 4——Chest Prone Press 15 5 
62 








No. 1—Neck 
No. 2—Neck 
No. 3—Neck 


No. 1—Calves 


No. 1—Legs 


No. 2—Legs 


No. 1—Back 
No. 2—Back 


PLANNING A 
Neck Snap ae 
Neck Twist one 
Bridge — 
Toe Rise 25 
Deep Knee Bend 5—5 
with Dumbbells 
Half Squat 25 
Dead Lift 25 
Dumbbell Swing | 5 =) 


SCHEDULE 


until tired 
until tired 
Not attempted 
in first week 


10 


10 


10 


10 
5 


Exercising in front of a mirror is always helpful, since 
it helps to keep your mind on your work. Don’t neglect 
those exercise suggestions—squeezing rubber balls, lifting 
weights with fingertips, and so forth—that are not con- 
tained in the schedule above. They can be fitted into the 
routine at various times, whenever it is convenient. 


63 








I 
' 
k 
i 
| 


PART TWO 


COMMON-SENSE 
BOXING 


























CHAPTER 6 


How ,, 
ROCKY 


to Begin MARCIANO 


B, “COMMON-SENSE BOX- 
ing” we mean boxing that is intended for the average boy 
—the boy who would like to be able to handle himself well 
according to the basic rules of the sport. It is not intended 
for those who wish to take boxing seriously. But even those 
who intend to make boxing their careers should find this 
treatment helpful. The facts présetited here are basic. They 
form the foundation for professional as well as amateur 
boxing. 


no 


Most ring injuries and fatalities are brought on by the 
fact that one of the contestants is not in good shape. A 


67 


SUT TR eS 





HOW TO BEGIN 


boxer should not step into a ring unless he 18 in the proper 
physical condition. He should concentrate his training at 
such times on shadow-boxing, practicing punches, bag 
punching, and minor tr aining activities. There is no body 
contact involved in this kind of training; therefore, there 
s little chance of injury. The same rules we set for body- 
building apply to boxing: (1) Do not attempt anything 
you are not ready for; and (2) do not force yourself to 
continue when exhausted. Boxing demands top condition 
at all times. Other sports may have time-out periods, but 
there are none in boxing. 

No two boys can be taught exactly the same way. Every- 
one’s bone and body structure is different. Every boy has 
his own way of running, jumping, and punching. Many a 
fine prospect has been ruined by an inept coach or trainer 
who tried to force his pupil to copy his or some other per- 
 ooxing like most sports, demands a great deal of effort 
and practice. A conscientious. student learns as time goes 
by. Top-notch trainers will admit that, given a pupil who 
has promise combined with a natural inclination to learn, 
it will still take from three to five years to make a good 

er of him. 
re choosing a trainer is an important step. Good ones are 
hard to find. The fact that a fellow was once a boxer does 
not necessarily qualify him as a trainer. He may have been 
a poor competitor who did everything wrong. You 
wouldn’t want him to pass his “knowledge” on to you. A 


68 




















HOW TO BEGIN 


poor teacher will develop bad habits in you that will be 
hard to break. In the long run, these habits may cost you 
your career. If you are looking for a good trainer, go to the 
better gyms. Don’t put your faith in a one-man coaching 
staff such as those usually found in small athletic clubs. 

If you know of a trainer and he has several good boxers, 
the chances are that he knows his business. If he has only 
one boxer who has received recognition, there is a chance 
that the fighter may have developed in spite of, rather than 
because of, his teacher. Be careful to check thoroughly. 


THE PROPER STANCE 


Proper stance is very important in the art of self-defense. 
The stance of a beginner will be vastly different from that 
of an advanced student or “pro.” Beginners are all started 
with the same basic stance, what trainers call a “pose” 
position. This is done to give them proper balance. The 
hands and arms are arranged to give maximum protection 
for the limited amount of defense knowledge a novice 
possesses, while at the same time giving him maximum 
offensive positioning. . 

As a pupil advances, he finds out for himself—with the 
help of his trainer—-better and more natural positions from 
which he can both attack and defend. Charley Goldman 
reduced the distance between my feet from thirty-six to 
twenty-four ‘inches by joining my ankles with a piece of 


Tope when I was shadow-boxing. Before that, my right foot 


69 


HOW TO BEGIN 


was so far back that I was never in position to throw a 
second punch. . 

You can’t judge an advanced boxer’s stance by how 
close it is to pose position. Some-“pros” appear to be doing 
everything wrong. They pr actically fight with their hands 
down. This may give the impression that these fighters are 
“wide open.” But with proper footwork, timing, and ex- 
perience, the unorthodox or unnatural boxer can avoid a 
good deal of punishment, while he draws an unwary Op- 
ponent in, keeps him off balance, and counterpunches him 
with unerring accuracy. It takes years to develop this kind 
of ability, however. A beginner must start with the pose 
position. It will be wise to learn it thoroughly, since it is the 
foundation of any boxing course. | 

The pose position. In boxing we must start with our feet. 
This is known as footwork. The feet should be eighteen 
inches to twenty-four inches apart, depending on your 
height. The big toe of the left foot should point slightly to 
the right. The left foot should be forward, the right foot 
back. You should stand fairly-straight with the weight of 
the body evenly distributed on the soles of both feet. The 
knees should be slightly bent, and the entire body should be 
completely relaxed with no feeling of tenseness whatever. 
Keep your hands up, elbows touching the hip bones. ‘The 
left fist should be extended slightly in front of the body 
about shoulder level. The left shoulder should be hunched 
and raised slightly higher than the right shoulder to ward 
off right-hand smashes. The right fist should be somewhere 


70 

















HOW TO BEGIN 





Three views of the proper stance. 


71 








HOW TO BEGIN 


near the jaw to protect the face from your opponent’s lett 
hand. At the same time, it must be ready to drive straight 
out if it is needed offensively. Keep the chin down and 
snuggled into the dimple of your left shoulder. Or, to be 
exact, between the deltoid muscle of the shoulder and the 
pectoral muscle of the chest. The mouth should be closed 
and the teeth clamped. The eyes should be open and at all 
times on the opponent. | 

You must be able to glide along without too much effort. 
To determine the proper distance of the feet, try weaving 
and twisting the trunk from the waist up. If you can do this 
without danger of falling off balance, you can be reason- 
ably sure that you have found the proper distance. 

Try to move with the grace of a panther. If you want to 
move forward, slide your left foot up a few inches and then 
follow the same distance with your right foot. Don’t make 
the mistake of bringing up your left foot and leaving your 
right foot behind. This will leave you practically dead in 

- your tracks, an easy mark'for a crafty adversary who can 
move and think fast. 

To move to the left, move the left foot to the left and 
follow it with the right. Do the opposite to move to the 
right. To retreat, the right foot goes back first, followed by 
the left. 

As you gain more experience, you will change your 
fundamental pose and develop your own style. When you 
are boxing a fellow noted for his right hand, move to his 
left or to your own right to keep away trom his “Sunday 


72 





HOW TO BEGIN 


Knowing the proper retreat may save 
you from unnecessary bruises. 





punch.” If you find yourself facing a southpaw, move to 
your left. You handle him exactly opposite to the way you 
handle an orthodox or right-handed opponent. - 
Boxing styles. The boxing style usually depends on the 
build or physique of the individual. The first style is de- 
signed for the tall, rangy, or lanky individual. He depends 
on speed and agility to outpoint his opponent. This type 


usually moves around, jabs a lot, and generally out-maneu- 


vers his adversary. He may also develop terrific punchin 
power because of the leverage of his long arms. . 
The other style is adaptable to the short, squat, or stock 
boy who depends mostly on power and infighting to ca d 
ture his decisions. He must be clever at bobbing and —<_ 


73 











HOW TO BEGIN 


Stance for a tall, rangy individual. 





ing. He must keep his hands close 10s. csi . —— 
counterpunching. He has to stay ‘inside,”” or : me eon 
opponent. He is at a disadvantage because e sehen 
arms, and very rarely is he able to box at long range aga 

3 -armed adversary. | 

a ie to avoid. When you throw a left one — 
your right hand up for defensive purposes. The a . 
holds true when you throw a right. A common ee a 
novices is to drop one hand when sBTOWINS the — 
Watch yourself in the mirror tomake sure you do not co: 
mit these errors. 


74 





HOW TO BEGIN 


J 
Crouch if you are short and stocky. 





There should be no hopping or jumping in the ring. 
Some people mistakenly refer to these movements’ as foot- 
work. Jerky movements only tend to tire you and keep you 
off balance. When you are hopping, you can not get set to 
send in a hard, fast punch. Your movements should be as 
smooth as possible—like waltzing. Relax while you look 
for an opening, but stay alert. Just before you throw a 
punch, tighten up slightly with your arms. This will make 


the blow solid. 
| MAKING YouR Own PUNCHING BaG 


_ In order to develop such punches as jabs, ‘hooks, and 
crosses, as well as combination punches and punches from 


75 


Saye 





KAPOK FILLING OR 


« @— HOOK 


= ~<—spPRING 


BAG 





The equipment it takes fo 


different positions, it will be necessary for you to have a 
| d to purchase one and you | 


ave room for one at home, you can make one yourself at — 


heavy bag. If you can’t affor 


little expense. | 


76 








DUFFLE BAGS 


SWIVEL 2 zs 
leas STEEL 
SPRING 

ROPE CHAIN 


r making a heavy bag. 













t 


(Above) Charley Goldman positions Rocky’s left arm for jabbing or hooking. 
(Photo by Bill G. Green) 


(Below) Rocky watches intently as Charley applies hand wraps. Wraps afford 
protection fo thumbs, knuckles, and wrists. (Photo by Bill G. Green) © 


“a 















































Nh 











9 




















(Above) Admiring fans watch Rocky pound the light bag. (Photo by Holland Fur- 


nace Co. staff photographer) 7 eo! Ne J Rasig.” 4 








(Opposite) Training scenes of Rocky pummeling the heavy bag with a 





series of lefts. (Photos by Ted Howard, Grossingers) 





"ie 





Above) Taking a breather after a heavy gym workout are (left to right) Charley 
Goldman, Jack Dempsey, and Rocky. (Photo by Ted Howard, Grossingers) 


(Below) Rocky and an able sparring partner, Toxi Hall. Clever boxing is the aim 
here—with full sparring equipment. (Photo by Ted Howard, Grossingers) 





dock waits to see what Rocky's right cross will 
(Photo by Holland Furnace Co. staff pho- 


Former heavyweight champ Jim Brad 
do to an already-battered speed bag. 


toqgrapher 














onal th 


a , “ 
Sail - wi se 
ay Fi ens ste = 































(Above) Rocky is 
joined for a snowy 
session of roadwork 


by Yogi Berra, New 
York Yankee catcher. 
(Photo by Ted How- 


ard, Grossingers) 


ay 
(Left) Skill, coordina- 
tion, and punching 
speed are empha- 
sized in workouts on 
the speed bag. (Photo 
by Ted Howard, 


Grossingers) 















(Above) Eager youngsters watch 
Rocky as he trains for a title bout 
with Jersey Joe Walcott. (Wide 
World Photos, Inc.) 


(Left) Described by Charley Gold- 
man as the best-conditioned, 
hardest-training fighter he has 
ever known, Rocky demonstrates 
that he means business with the 
heavy bag. (Photo by Ted How- 
ard, Grossingers) 











Charley Goldman points with pride to the sil-unge! 
of the World—Rocky Marciano. (International New 








s Photos) 





a 


/ 
7 


eated Heavyweight Champion 





HOW TO BEGIN 


Purchase a couple of duffle-bags at your local army sur- 
plus store. New ones are preferred, but if you can only get 
used ones make’sure they are free from wear spots and 


tears. Also purchase some sawdust, kapok, or some other . 
filling similar in texture. Screw a strong swivel: hook into an — 
~ overhead board or beam. You will also need a strong, steel 


spring about six inches long and a chain or very strong 
rope. A chain is preferred. 3 


Place the filling into. the first duffle bag. Pack it down 


solidly, watering the material. Tamp it down with your 


feet. When the bag is filled almost to the top, take a one- 


foot-square piece of oilcloth, plastic tablecloth, or inner 
tubing. Place this on top of the packing and tuck the ends 


in over the filling. Then sew the bag up tight so that none 
of the stuffing can escape, even in the form of dust. 

With the help of a buddy, place the first bag into the 
second and close it up. Use the chain or rope to attach it 


to the hook at the desired height. 


LEARNING TO PUNCH 


When everything that can be said about boxing has been 
said, one fact will stand out above all the rest: the best 
boxers hit the most and get hit the least. This refers not 


_ only to the number of punches, but also to the strength 
_ behind them. 


A boxer must first of all be in prime physical condition. 
He has to be able to give it out as well as take it. Second, 


77 





HOW TO BEGIN 


he must become skilled at punching. This involves punch- 
ing, defending against punches thrown at him, and coun- 
terpunching. These three factors are all closely related. 

It takes time and effort to master them. But once they have 
been mastered, a boxer is ready for any opponent. 

Allskilled boxers place different emphasis on these three 
factors. It usually depends on the build, the style, and the 
temperament of the individual. Every boxer has his favor- 
ite and most effective punch. Some prefer to punch, others 
become noted as counterpunchers. 

But all have one thing in common. They have spent a 
great deal of time studying all the phases of boxing. They 
know all the moves and can, when the moment calls for it, 
use them. They can adapt themselves to different oppo- 
nents because they have a wide range of knowledge and ex- 
perience behind them. : oe 

The foundation for this experience is outlined in the next 
few chapters. How skilled you become in using this ma- 
terial depends primarily on yourself. 


78 


: to Develop 





CHAPTER 7 


Punches ay 
CHARLEY 


GOLDMAN 


Tx: MOST IMPORTANT 
punch in the average boxer’s repertoire is the left jab. 


It is not‘a knockout blow. Rather it keeps an adversary 


off balance and sets him up for such power punches as the 
right cross and left hook. A boxer who has good footwork 
coupled with an excellent jab is a tough man to beat. To 


beat the other fellow to the punch, a jab must be fast and 
accurate. 


Dd: 


THE LEFT JAB 


Position. Stand in pose position, head down, left foot 
extended a foot and a half in front of left side of right foot, 
right arm by side with fist close to chin. The left arm, held 


719 


The left jab — pose position. 





The left jab — starting the punch. 








PUNCHES TO DEVELOP. 


crooked, should be near side of body. Your fist should be 
extended a few inches in front of your body on a level with 
the left shoulder. Now thrust the left hand straight out, 
turning the fist so that the palm faces the floor when the 
punch is completed. As you send the left hand out, move 
the left foot forward and follow with the right foot a like 
distance. When you are moving forward, bend your trunk 
slightly to the right. This will help keep your chin out of 
the way of counter punches. Do not drop your right hand 








The left jab — connecting. 
81 


PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 


when you jab, or your opponent may counter with his own 
left. It is best to double jab, or send out two left thrusts in 
quick order. If your opponent does stop your first jab he 
may not be fast enough to get out of the way of your second 
one. Also it may help keep him off balance so that he can't 
counter. If you are not going to move forward and jab 
again, move to your right, keeping your hands up! Do not 
bring your head up or pull out “to see what’s going on.” 
To find an opening for a jab you must sometimes feint to 
cross up your opponent so that he relaxes his defense long 
enough for you to deliver your punch. 


THE RIGHT (CROSS 


The most powerful punch in the average boxer’s bag of 
tricks is the right cross. Delivering a right cross correctly 
requires perfect timing and coordination. This can only 
be attained by continuous practice. You must also be very 
careful not to lead with your right hand. Making this mis- 


take as a beginner could prove disastrous, for if the punch 


is missed you may be so much out of position that you will 
be wide open for counters. It is always safer to send a left 
out first before crossing with a right. | 
Position. To deliver the right cross correctly, assume the 
- pose position again—left extended in jab position, right 
fist near chin, elbow near side and pointing toward floor. 
Throw the jab out, stepping out with left foot simultane- 
ously. Before it reaches its mark, drive your right fist 


82 












































PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 


The right cross — pose position. 


x 





‘ 
. 


| 
) | | he * 


straight out, (do not pull fist back even a fraction) twist 
your body to the left, pivoting on the sole of your right 
toot. AS you pivot, get plenty of push and snap from the 
right side of your body up from the foot through the legs 
and hips and make sure it is capped off by plenty of snap 
from your right shoulder. This power is accentuated by the 
coordination of the body, which is sometimes described in 
other sports as the “follow through” motion. As the fist 
goes out, the palm—which originally faced the left—turns 
so that when the blow is completed, the palm faces the 


83 





PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 


The right cross —— com- 


pleted. 





floor. Make sure that when the right lands, your left hand 
goes back to its natural defensive position on your left 


side. Not only will the left hand by the side of the chin pre- 


vent counters, but it will also serve you offensively by being 
in a position to come roaring back with a left hook. ae 
member when throwing the right hand not to “telegrap 


it. By that we mean do not pull your fist back the slightest . 


bit: send it directly out in a straight line toward your tar get, 
snapping the entire body into the blow. a 

Be reasonably certain when you are going to shoot your 
right hand out that you have gauged your distance cor- 


84 


| 
i 
1 
oe 
|| 







PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 





The right cross — against an opponent. 


we 


rectly and that you will land. If you miss, the momentum 
may make you fall forward, and falling off balance makes 
you an easy target for a good counter-puncher. You should 
practice the cross incessantly on the heavy bag to get it 
down pat. There are three “S’s” in correct right hand 


punching: Straight, Snappy, and Short. 


THE LEFT Hook 


- Though the left hand is used primarily to keep an op- 


ponent off and set him up for a more damaging punch, the 


85 








PUNCHES TO DEVELOP | 
left hand when used in “hook” fashion can be a powerful 


offensive blow. . 

To deliver the left hook properly requires a great deal 
of coordination. A short, fast hook is best. Some boxers 
usually of the rough or unskilled variety—use a wild, 
roundhouse hook. This may be very effective if it lands, 
but it is easy to block and can prove dangerous it used 
against a skilled, straight-punching opponent. 


Position. To throw a sharp, short hook, assume the pose. 


position. With your left hand extended in jab position, 
palm facing right, drive your left hand out and circle it 


The left hook — rear view. 





PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 


The left hook — from the side. 
















down in arc-like fashion, finishing with your palm facing 
the floor. ‘To get proper coordination you must use the 
force of the entire body in what is known as the “follow 
through” motion. This starts from the feet up, thus: Pivot- 
ing on ball of left foot, turn your body toward the right. 
Push your hips up and snap shoulder into punch to get 
extra force. As arm goes out, do not raise your elbow, and 
do not drop the right hand. The left knee goes inside to: 
ward right knee, and the left heel goes outward. This 
_ should be practiced a long time on the heavy bag to get it 
perfect. The shorter and more powerful the hook the bet- 
ter. Get plenty of snap. When you hear a resounding whack 





87 








PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 





PEI, qd 


“ty, 


Cu, 





The left hook — front view against opponent. 


on the bag, even though your fist hasn’t travelled more than 
six inches, you can be almost sure you have it near oe 
fection. 

Left hook to body. One of the best offensive punches 
is the left hook to the body. Most fighters are known as 
“head hunters.” That is, they set their sights on their op- 
ponent’s face and totally neglect the bigger and more sta- 


tionary target, the stomach. 
You must be careful wheri throwing body punches, for 


88 





PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 





ae 


dha 


@ 
SS 





t 
4 : » . 
. yaen pa 
\ WV 
UL 


The left hook — side view against opponent. 


in shooting those downstairs punches you may get careless 


and leave your face exposed for counter punches. Many 
fans at fights will yell, “Hit him in the body,” not realizing 
that sometimes young, inexperienced pugilists leave them- 
selves totally unguarded j in the upper regions. 


Using body punches as a counter measure is a fairly safe 


way of delivering them. If you are going to throw them, 
bend down at the knees and keep your hands well up near 
your face. Keep your right hand near your chin. This will 


89. 


Sl a ee ca 





PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 


Left hook to body — side. view. 





protect you against low, left hooks. To thwart right crosses 
which may follow, weave to your own right and catch your 
foe’s right with your right glove. When getting down out 
of range, come up with your body, using the legs to drive 
the hook out and straightening the knees in the process, 


driving the left hand out shortly a and directly to your op- 


ponent’s body. 
After throwing body punches, do not bring your head 
backward, but rather weave to the right with your hands up 


in defensive position. If you bring your head back or “pull 
out” as the saying goes, you are leaving yourself open for 


wild, roundhouse punches. : } > 


90. 





PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 


Left hook to body — rear view. 





A body attack is good not only because it gains points, 
but also because it cuts your opponent’s wind and slows 
him down. This is especially true when boxing a foe who 
runs. It is hard to reach his face, but you can usually catch 
him with some body shots that will gradually wear him 
down and reduce some of his agility. 


THE Uppercut 


_ Another very effective punch which should be added to 
your “Portfolio” is the uppercut. It can be delivered either 


91. 


























PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 


The uppercut. 





with the left or right hand. We are gong to describe a right 
uppercut first. 

Position. Assume pose position. Send your jab and put 
foot out in unison. As you go down with the sliding motion 
of your left foot, you weave your trunk toward the right. 
Your right hand should be in the usual position on your 
right side. Your left and right knees should both be bent 
slightly, while your right palm should be facing the ceiling. 
Now send your right glove toward your opponent, accentu- 
ating it by driving it out with the help of the right side of 
your body. By this we mean you should push up, starting 

92 





PUNCHES TO DEVELOP 








os y V 


a 


ix ra 





=—Jg 


The left uppercut. 


from the right foot, driving through the right leg, straight- 
ening out your knee. Now with the right fist going invert- 
edly upward, weave your trunk toward your left side. Your 
left should be back in its usual defensive position. The left 


_ 1s there not only to block a punch, but if you caught your 


opponent underneath his chin you lifted his head up, so 
that his chin is in direct line for your combination left hook. 
Always jab before your uppercut. Do not throw upper- 
cuts when you are far away from your opponent. You will 
probably miss and be open for counter punches. 
The bolo. The “bolo” is a wide arc uppercut such as is 
used by certain professional boxers of long experience. It 


93 









































‘PUNCHES. TO DEVELOP 


should not be attempted by novices. First, you will prob- 
ably miss, and if there is a chance for you to land, your 
opponent will almost certainly see it coming and block or 
be braced to receive it, rendering it ineffective. Also you 
may hurt your thumb or hand, ay if you land on his 
elbow. 


The left uppercut. This eT 1S simply the reverse of 


a right uppercut. Instead of using your left foot going for- 
ward when delivering your right uppercut, your right foot 
and right hand go ‘out first followed by ‘an inverted left 
hand. 


94 



































































































CHAPTER 8 


Defense 
Agamst 


BY 
CHARLEY 


Punches | GOLDMAN 


Re 

| H E’S A SUCKER FOR A LEFT” 
is a saying used in boxing to describe a boxer who can 
offer very\little defense against a left jab. Here are a few 
ways to protect yourself against this punch. 


DEFENSE AGAINST THE LEFT JAB 


No. J. An opponent sends left out. Weave your trunk to 
the right side. This will bring your head out of range, and 
the jab should go harmlessly over your left shoulder. —_ 
hands up to give added protection. 


29. 





ea aes oats 














DEFENSE AGAINST PUNCHES 






a 


Weave fo your right fo 
I; : avoid the left jab. 





| ve 
rf LY 
: Se 
3 aan 
\W3 Nar) 


No. 2. This is called the “parry.” When a jab nears you, 


push or slap your opponent’s wrist or forearm with your 


right hand, sending his arm towards your leit. If done 
quickly, this will tend to throw your foe off balance. This 
should be done in combination with No. 1 position, and 
usually with a slow-moving adversary. 

No. 3. When your opponent jabs, bring your right hand 
out to catch it short of his intended mark, which is your 


face. 


96 











DEFENSE AGAINST PUNCHES 


DEFENSE AGAINST THE RIGHT CROSS 


Because the average boxer’s cross is his hardest or “Sun- 


day punch,” one should develop an adequate defense 
against it. 





Defense against the right cross — side view. 


No. I. The first and easiest way to stop a right cross is 


by your usual defensive position. Your left hand at the 


side of your face can catch or stop blows on your glove. 

No. 2. You remember that in the pose position your 
Shoulder was slightly hunched and your chin behind it. 
Catch or stop blow on shoulder. 


97 

















DEFENSE AGAINST PUNCHES 
No. 3. If opponent is punching at you, weave slightly to 
your right. Bring the right glove i in front of you and “catch” 
the punch with the palm.of your right glove. 
No. 4. Another way, which is quite professional, is to 


weave your head to your right, allowing the right cross to 
ride over your left shoulder. 







Defense 





against the 
right cross — 
front view. 





DEFENSE AGAINST THE LEFT Hook 


No. 1. The easiest way to stop a left hook from doing 
damage is to keep your right hand in its original pose posi- 


a 
~ 
~ 
= 
—| 
on 


s 
io} 
~~ 





Weaving 
to avoid 
the right 
cross. 





The-easiest defense against the left hook. 


99 





"Stepping 
inside” the 
left hook. 





"Stepping back" 
and countering 


the left hook. 





gg. 
) 
= * 
me) 
-_y 
Sef 


me | 
/ 
k 
\ eMins a 


7 
\ 
(e 


( ‘anit & 















DEFENSE AGAINST PUNCHES 





tion, the right fist near chin, the elbow pointing toward the 
floor and almost touching your hip. In this position the arm 
poses a natural barrier against lefts, whether to the head or 
body. 

No. 2. This is called “stepping inside.” As the left arcs 
toward you, weave down slightly and to your left so that 
your head seems to be going toward your opponent’s chest. 
Keep your hands in original defense position to prevent 
the countering of your opponent if he uses the hook as one 
of a series of combination punches. 

No. 3. This is called “stepping back.” If your opponent 
is a slow-moving individual and is a sluggish puncher, you 
will have time to get out of the way of his hook by stepping 
to your own right. Keeping your hands up will not only aid 
you, should defensive measures be necessary, but will also 
put you in an excellent position to counter. 


DEFENSE AGAINST THE UPpPpERCUT 


If delivered correctly, the uppercut is a stinging, jarring 
blow. The best defense against this ripping punch is to be 
wary of making mistakes that leave you in an unfavorable 
position where your opponent can uppercut you. 

No. 1. The momentum of throwing and missing with 
- wild, overhand punches will carry your upper body into a 
bent-over position, making you face the floor in a natural 
position to receive or catch an uppercut. If you should miss 
a punch and bow over, bring both your hands up to your 
face immediately and weave from side to side. 


101 


DEFENSE AGAINST PUNCHES 









oo 


AE 
eh f 


Pion’ 
~. 






| 


a 


WLLL 





Defense against the left uppercut. 


No.2. Ifyou are ducking a punch, do not duck forward 

but rather a little bit to the sides. Do not forget to keep 
our hands up near your face. OC 

° No. 3. If you see an uppercut coming, bring your fore- 
arm up so that it crosses your face. In this way you will be 
able to catch your foe’s arcing punch at the crook of his 


- arm or elbow. 


102 


CHAPTER 9 
Counter- ay 
. CHARLEY 
Punclang : GOLDMAN 








| | Av rsoucn THE LEFT JAB IS 
a very effective weapon, it can be a handicap, for some 
boxers leave themselves wide open when attempting to 


_ deliver it and can readily be hit by what are known as 
counter-punches. 

















. COUNTERING THE LEFT JAB 


_No. I. As your opponent jabs, parry his left hand with 
your right glove and step in with a short fast hook to his 
jaw or stomach. 


No. 2. As opponent jabs, step quickly to your right and 


send a fast, straight right over his shoulder and down at 
his jaw. 








103 








COUNTER-PUNCHING 









A 


' 







mb 
x <<. | 
S ( 


Countering the left jab — No. 2. 





od, 


{ yb MULAN @y, 


a 


No. 3. As jab is coming toward you, weave quickly to 
your own right. Keeping right hand in usual position near 
your jaw, send it straight out to his right side and follow 
this with a short left hook up at his face. To accentuate 
this movement, pivot on ball of right foot when delivering 
right cross and pivot on left sole when sending left hook in. 

No. 4. For advanced boxers only: If you happen to duck 
down and a little to your left as his left jab goes over your 
right shoulder, come up with a left hook to his body, push- 


104 














= 
\N 


Countering the 


left jab ar No. 3. a 


- sree 





| 
= 
i) 
Ss! 
' =x 
5 
Cc 





Countering the 


left jab — No. 4. 


COUNTER-PUNCHING 


ing up with left leg for added power. This should bring 
your body over to your right side and your right hand will 


be in position to deliver a right cross to your opponent's 
chin. 


CoUNTERING THE RIGHT CROSS 


No. 1. As your opponent sends aright to your chin, put | 


your left hand in the prescribed defensive position (by your 


chin). Catch or stop the blow on left glove and then drive 


a short hook toward your adversary’s chin. 





Countering right cross with right cross. 


106 








COUNTER-PUNCHING 
No. 2. Catching the blow as described in the preceding 
paragraph on your left glove, counter fast by sending in a 


short, straight right cross to your opponent’s chin, pivoting 
to your left side on sole of right foot. 


' No. 3. As you weave underneath a right lead allowing 
the blow to skid over your right shoulder, come up with a 


left hook. 


No. 4. If you are boxing an inept opponent iG tele: 
prapus or draws back his glove before he sends it out, step 





Countering right cross with short hook. 


107 














COUNTER-PUNCHING 
‘nside and beat him to the punch with a short fast hook, 
weaving to your own right for added defense. 


COUNTERING A LEFT Hook 


It would be wise for you to re-read the “Defense Against 
Left Hook” section. This section is practically a continua: 
tion. . 

No. 1. In number one of the “defense” section, you were 
told to stop a hook with your right arm. When you feel 


| ; ae 
your adversary’s fist on your right arm, drive your 0 





Countering left hook with left hook. 
108 





COUNTER-PUNCHING 
right straight out toward his chin, then follow this with a 
crisp, short hook. 

No. 2. Another variation of the above is when you feel 
his left fist on your right as you have blocked it. With the 
aid of correct defensive or pose position, send out a sharp 
left hook of your own. You can propel it swiftly by pivoting 
toward your right side for extra speed and power. 

No. 3. In number two of the “defense” section, you were 
told how to step inside. When your opponent’s left hook 
goes over your right shoulder it should go around the back 


\ 








COUNTER-PUNCHING 


of your head. At this time counter with a double left hook. . 


Start to the body, then loop it up to the chin. 

No. 4. If you are boxing a slow-moving opponent who 
telegraphs his hook, when he starts “waving” it send a 
straight right out toward his chin inside his hook. This will 
beat him to the punch. 7 

No. 5. In number three of the “defense” section you were 
told when boxing a slow-moving adversary who sends out 
sluggish punches, that you can step a little to your own 
right. Then, as his hook swishes harmlessly in front of you, 
send a right cross over his shoulder and down at his chin. 





Countering uppercut with a short chop. 


110 








‘ 


COUNTER-PUNCHING 


No. 6. If your opponent mi 
Sses, step in with 
to his stomach and a right to his chin. a 


COUNTERING THE UPPERCUT 


— Lapa nae an opponent who is skillful at upper- 
: , dont make any false moves. If 

| | . IT you expect to coun- 
ter against him, you must be extremely fast ee sharp 


a O. : If you are facing an opponent who drops his left 
- when he throws his right uppercut, or drops his right 





Countering the telegraphed uppercut. 


go 1 


COUNTER-PUNCHING | | 
rd is 
hen throwing a left, move to the side where his gua 7 
3 é ; 
pn Cross with a short cross OF hook at whatever op 


ts itself. 
a ; "If you stop an uppercut with your forearm, eo 


his 
your other hand in a short chopping motion toward 


a 0. 3. Many fellows who use the uppercut telegraph tt. 


i is, step 1n 
If you are smart and see your opponent doing this, step 


as he draws his hand back and belt him. This will keep him 


off balance. 


-112 








CHAPTER 10 


Combination, 
CHARLEY 
Punches GOLDMAN 


S ERIES OF PUNCHES USED 
by skilled boxers who want to catch up with a fast-moving 


Opponent are commonly called “combination punches.” 
Sometimes it is extremely difficult to land single punches. 
However, if you throw two or three different punches in 


’ a short space of time, there is an excellent chance you may 
catch a mobile foe with one of them. 


LEFT JAB—RIGHT CROossS 


. This is the best known of all combinations—the “one- 


two.” It is simply a jab followed by a right cross.. You are 


113 


COMBINATION PUNCHES 


moving around an opponent, jabbing and finding ra ore 
repeatedly. If well executed, a jab is a flashy ae 7 _ 
the whole very few knockouts co teh it. 
r punch, such as the rig 
aap lg position in front of punching bag. a 
left jab. Before it has reached the mark, start a aie : 
right going for the same spot you are Pee when 
punch calls for speed and accuracy. Do not throw eT 
hand out with such force that it will push your nia 
out of range for the right that follows. In pring we 
right, send it straight out, pivoting on the ball 9 you = : 
foot to get the maximum power and naan on 
your body movement. When the cross goes out ring 
left back to cover the left side of the body and jaw. 


r] 


Lert Jas-RicHT Cross-Lert Hook 


; Cos eS 99 O 

This combination is known as the “jab-cross: ya . 
the previous combination, add another punch, a leit 20 
Send left out. Before it lands, start the right cross going, 


pivoting on ball of right foot. This will bring your right 


shoulder nearer to your opponent than your left shoulder, 


which should be drawn back with lett hand on a “on 
elbow protecting your cocked side arm. Then shi sae 
toward right, sending the left fist out in hook oe ed 
ing on your left foot. As the left goes out, the rig | g 


back to defensive position. 


114 



























































COMBINATION PUNCHES 


These combinations must be done with a great deal of 
speed. Practice them as much as possible. 


LEFT JAB—UPPERCUT 


This is a good combination against a boy who ducks a 
lot. As you send your left hand out in jab fashion, your left 
foot slides forward simultaneously a few inches in the same 
direction as the jab. Before your left has reached its mark, 


_ Weave your body to the right. Your right. hand should be 
“near your chin, with elbow by your right side. Bending 
. your right knee slightly, whip out your right hand invert- 


edly in uppercut fashion. To get the full power into the 


Tight hand you must push your body forward from the right 


foot upwards, straightening your knee in the movement. 


LEFT JAB—UpprErcutT—LEFt Hoox 


To complete the jab-uppercut series against bobbing 


and weaving foes, add a left hook to the jab and right 


uppercut. Start a jab. Before it has landed the right upper- 
cut goes out, by pushing your entire right side into the 


blow. Your right shoulder should be out forward, with 


your left hand and shoulder drawn back after the jab. You 
are now in position to pivot on your left foot and come 
back with a whistling left hook. The left hook is very 
effective when you have straightened your opponent up. 


with a right uppercut. This sets his chin right in line for 
the hook that follows. 


115 


COMBINATION PUNCHES 


LEFT JAB—LEFT Hook 


For a tall fellow with a strong left hand this is an ex- 
cellent combination. It is extremely potent for a converted 
or turned-around “southpaw,” a natural left-hander who 
has been schooled to box with a right-hander’s stance. 

Assume your usual pose position. Send your left out in 
jab fashion, shuffling in with your left foot, followed by 
right foot. After the jab lands, step in fast again. As you 
do, cock your elbow and shoot out fast in hook fashion. 
While doing this, make sure you do not drop your right 
hand. You will notice when you jab an opponent that his 
head will snap back a little. This will put his jaw in perfect 

position for a well-timed hook. 
To add further force to this combination, send a right 
cross over after the jab and hook. This must be done fast. 


RicHt To Bopy-LEFT Hook TO CHIN 


This is an excellent combination for a stocky boy or for 
one adept at ducking out of range. It is a wonderful coun- 
termove against a left jab, or for use against a foe who has 
a strong facial defense but who has an opening in the lower 
regions. 

As your opponent jabs at you and you duck, you fall in 
close to him, bending your knees and dropping down a bit 
under his jab. Your hands should still be in the original 
pose position. This is one time you will lead with your right. 
Pivoting on your right foot, send your right straight out to 


116 








COMBINATION PUNCHES | 


his side, sending your body to your left. Your left hand 
should be near your chin in the usual defensive position 
Your right shoulder at this stage should be a little more 7 
front of you, with your left shoulder back. This time you 
pivot in the opposite direction, toward your right drivin 

out a short, sharp hook upwards to your opponent's ae 
To get more force or leverage into the hook, pivot on ae 
left sole and push the body upwards from the left ri in 
the direction of the punch. To get even more added power 


‘Straighten out your left knee. This time you should be 


finishing up with your left hand extended and your right 


- back by your chin. 


117 











CHAPTER 11 


The Art 


and Science gy 


| ROCKY 
of Boxing MARCIANO 








I. THE PREVIOUS CHAP- 
ters Charley Goldman and I outlined the basic foundation 
for skilled boxing. In doing so, we stressed a number of 
essential points: physical conditioning, patience, perse- 
verance, good training, and a willingness to learn. These 
are the tools a novice begins with. He has to have them if 
he wants to master even the first steps in boxing—stance, 
punching, counter-punching, and so forth. 

But you will also remember that experience was men- 
tioned as essential to ring mastery. The knowledge that a 
boxer picks up as he goes from novice to professional 


119 


THE ART AND SCIENCE OF BOXING 


status is something that can’t be rushed. There is no quick 
and easy substitute for it. Experience makes sound tr i 
ing and fundamental knowledge a habit. It makes B00 : 
boxing against any opponent almost second oer 7 
fighter. When a boy has developed to the point where : 
is instinctively a good fighter, boxing has become an a 
ience to him. | _ 
gee of development is a goal you should be sili 
at even as a novice. Even if you have no intention 
making boxing a part of your livelihood, you should a 
have the drive that makes you want to do a thing as we 
as it can be done. You need this kind of push for success 1n 
ane three chapters will deal with the arts | of in- 
fighting, feinting, and defensive boxing. These skills, . 
combination with the knowledge of correct position an 
punching, form the core of the art and science ol see 
Before Charley Goldman goes into them 1n detail, 1 wou 
like to make a few general comments. 


. INFIGHTING 


Infighting is one of the lost arts of modern-day boxing. 
This has been brought about by a lack of concentration on 
the parts of both trainers and boxers. Neglect in this ae 
has resulted in many fighters today being deprived 0 


knowledge that could make them better at the sport. As 


« 


it stands, the short-armed boxer 1s taking only minimum 


120 


THE ART AND SCIENCE OF BOXING 


advantage of his superiority in close-in action. The long- 
armed fighters, who usually work best at a distance, are 
often totally ineffective when it comes to close-in fighting. 
Both types stand to gain much from a knowledge of in- 
fighting. The short-armed boy can off-set his natural dis- 
advantage against a lankier opponent, and the long-armed 
boy can improve his offensive and defensive power by 
learning a few tricks about infighting. 


FEINTING 


Great fighters of the past have been masters of the art 
of feinting. Feinting is the ability to fake out an opponent 
by making moves that confuse and befuddle him. When it 
is done correctly, he will relax his defense long enough for 
‘| | the boxer feinting to counter with a punch other than the 
| one lie expected. 
The great Benny Leonard, former lightweight champion 
of the world and one of the greatest fighters of all time, was 
famous for his mastery of the “mix-’em-up” move. When 
in action he would first feint an opponent, then study his 
- Opponent’s reaction to the move. Remembering this, he 

would wait for a while, thén deliberately try the same feint 
- again. This time, however, he knew how his opponent 
would move and would shoot a punch into the opening he 
knew was coming. 

Benny Leonard’s ability in feinting illustrates the im- 
portance of experience. As you advance in boxing, you 
























































121 





THE ART AND SCIENCE OF BOXING 


will learn more and more techniques that will increase your 
ring ability. Just as in any science, you learn by partici- 
pating and by thinking out in advance the moves you will 
perform. : 


DEFENSIVE BOXING 


If you watch matches on television, you have probably 
noted that the majority of the boxers performing today are 
offensive fighters. There are a number of reasons for this, 
but perhaps the main one is that video audiences demand 
slam-bang fights. Consequently, the boys you see in action 
are there primarily to please the crowd. | 

A skilled defensive boxer is usually the product of long 
and intensive training. Too many of the offensive boxers 
you see today are green, untried youngsters who do little 
more than throw a barrage of reckless punches. The 
skilled, careful boy knows that slipping punches is also part 
of the art of self-defense. a 


122 





CHAPTER 12 


Ihe Art ,, 
of Infighting CHARLEY 


GOLDMAN 


_ S rocky, CHUNKIER MEN 
must master the art of infighting to survive in ring action. 


If you are in this category, a great deal of training and 
coaching is advisable. ; 


SHORT MEN 


Keep your hands up by your face, your elbows by your 


; side. Bob and weave, shuffle forward, or take short, de- 
liberate steps toward your adversary while moving the 


head from side to side. Try to gauge your opponent’s leads. 


_ When he shoots out his punches, make him miss and get 


inside his swings and close to his stomach. When you get 


Inside, stay there! When you are close to him, keep moving 


almost rushing forward at the same time shooting short 


123 








THE ART OF INFIGHTING 






ae 


~_— 





din 


Oy 
SS 


A shorter man should always crowd his opponent and stay in- 
side. 


chopping punches to the body, sometimes bringing them 
up to his face. Your opponent will try to back away or 
hold on if he can. Don’t let him! Keep ripping your arms 
away from his clinches and chopping those punches to his 
midriff. Also, when in close push your opponent's arms 
away from the front of his body and outward. This will 
enable you to get clear shots at his midsection with the 


minimum amount of blocking. 


124 





THE ART OF INFIGHTING 





A tall man pushes away the crowder with his left arm. 


TALL MEN 


You taller fellows who have the odds in your favor when 
it comes to long range boxing have a problem on your 
hands when infighting, where your long arms are a distinct 
handicap. If you are boxing a strong, chunky fellow who 
keeps rushing you and keeps you off balance, grab his 
right arm at the crook of his elbow, underneath his bicep, 
with your left glove. Take his right arm with your left hand 
and force his forearm between your right bicep and side. 
Keep your left foot between his two feet and your right 


125 





THE ART OF INFIGHTING 


foot outside. Keep your body toward your right. To keep 
your opponent in a vise-like grip close to you, you must 
make your right arm do double duty. Now with the lower 
part of your right arm from the elbow down, dig your right 
fist into his left side. 

When you are doing this, your opponent will try to pull 
his right arm away. Hold on and with your left glove push 
his arm as far in back of him as you can. Keep pushing 
your opponent backwards, to make sure he can’t pull out 
and loop his punches to the side of your head. 


¥, 
3 
'S 

= 


Tf 
Pus 





“Protect yourself at all times.” 


126 





THE ART OF INFIGHTING 


THINGS TO REMEMBER 


Do not keep your chin on your foe’s shoulder or above 


"his head. If he should happen to bring his shoulder or head 


up in a jerky motion, it could shake you up seriously. 

When the referee says “break,” take your right hand, 
place it in back of your opponent’s elbow or tricep and 
push him away from you. Then move to your own right 
fast with your hands up/ 

Always remember to bring your guard up immediately. 
Many a fine boxer has been knocked out because he was 
lax for a fraction of a second. The lackadaisical way of 
walking or stepping backwards with hands down and chin 


-. up is an open invitation for your opponent to step in and 


let one go. When the referee gives out instructions before 
a contest, he also gives out a bit of very important advice: 
“Protect yourself. at all times.” 


127 





CHAPTER 13 


BY 


The Art 
CHARLEY 


of Femting GOLDMAN 


| A. FIGHTERS REACT DIF- 
ferently to a feint. Some, when you make a false move to- 
ward them, cover up immediately while others will throw 
punches with reckless abandon. This is sometimes known 
in the boxing game as a “desperation flurry.” Feints may be 
made not only with the hands but also with the head, 
shoulders, and the body in general. 


‘ How To FEINT 


In order to feint correctly you must first study or “feel 
out” your opponent. For example, try a feint on him with 
no intent to counter immediately but rather to study his 
reaction to your false move. Your “fake-’em” routine must 


129 








a 


ene ee 


Si cm man 





THE ART OF FEINTING 


be well-organized. If you feint an opponent and he covers 
up, remember what part of his anatomy he has left exposed, 
then come back a little later, feign a move, and shoot a fast 
punch to the exposed parts. 

On the other hand, if you are sparring with a “jumpy” 
individual and you notice in your feelout feint that he 
throws a flurry of punches, you must be careful. Feint him 
first, then step to your right out of harm’s way, then come 
back quickly with a punch over or under his leads. Perhaps 
when you step back and he punches he will miss and be 
off-balance. Then you will find him an easy target for your 
counters. 


TYPES OF FEINTS 


Hand feint. This is the most common type. Keeping pose 
position, bring out left or right hand about one or two 
inches from regular position and back to place. 

Head feint. This one is the mark of a skilled boxer. It is 
intended to draw your adversary into a lead. Stick your 
face out an inch or two, then step to the side. Usually your 
opponent will jab out at you in defense, especially if he is 
the nervous or high-strung type. Then you can hit him with 
some of the counter punches described in previous chap- 
ters. | | 

Shoulder feint. This is the safest. Keep your pose posi- 
tion. Just shake your shoulder as if you were going to start 
a punch. Study your opponent's move. Counter as usual. 


130 

















THE ART OF FEINTING 


Body feint. Move your trunk from side to side or with 
good footwork. Make believe you are going to charge him. 


This is to fluster your opponent and give him the false 
notion you are going on the offensive. 


THINGS TO REMEMBER. 


: 
Feints must necessarily be done quickly and with a mini- 
mum of effort. Only fast, snappy boxers can execute a feint 
successfully. That means you are in for a lot of practice 
sessions if you are to become adept at this move. If you are 
slow and lack the sharpness needed to complete this fast 
move, forget feinting. Poorly performed feints can back- 


_ fire, and you can find yourself being countered. 


131 














CHAPTER 14 


The Art 
of Defensive sy 


e CHARLEY 
Boxing GOLDMAN 


[. YOU STUDIED THE PAGE 
on proper stance, you will note that the position of your 
arms is defensive. They cover a large portion of your body 
and make it invulnerable to attack. Another thing to 
remember is to move your head from side to side. This 
movement, intended to make you a mobile rather than a 
stationary target, begins from the waist up. 

In order to land a solid punch, one must be set, and if the 
object in front of you is always on the go it may be difficult 
to find the range. Also remember when boxing orthodox or 








133 












































THE ART OF DEFENSIVE BOXING 





Min, 


Om, 


The clinch. 


i en in 
right-handed fighters to move to your own 98 aro 
action against “southpaws,” move to your left, away trou 


this best hand. 


THE CLINCH 


e . e « e d 
In boxing, since there are DO time-outs when one 1s tit 
or hurt, a skillful performer 


catch his breath uses the clin 


134 


who is hurt or who wishes to 
ch. This is the practice of 


THE ART OF DEFENSIVE BOXING 





grabbing both your adversary’s arms and holding on so 
tightly that he finds it impossible to use them. When clinch- 
ing, do not wrestle your opponent. Simply hold on and 
lean on your foe. To wrestle your opponent will only tend 
to make you become more tired. When the referee breaks 
you, do not step straight back with your hands down. This 
is an invitation to disaster. When you break, bring your 
hands up immediately and step to the side. 

_ When on the offensive you must be equally cautious and 
have your guard in readiness for counter blows. When you 
throw a punch with the right hand, as it goes out, bring 
your left hand back to its original position. When throwing 
your left, bring your right back also. When bringing your 
hand back, bring it straight back, not down and then up. 
When your hand or guard drops, you are wide open for a 
quick-thinking rival. 






















COVERING Up 


A practice that never looks impressive but is sometimes 
necessary for self-preservation, is covering up. You may be 
facing a fresh, strong opponent who has you dazed and 
tired. You can’t clinch with him because you are weak. He 
_keeps coming in, pouring punches at you, and gets you on 
the ropes or in a.corner. You bend down slightly, cross 
your hands in front of you and Jet him paw away at your 
arms, elbows, and gloves, until you have recouped your 
waning strength. Then you move around again. You can- 


135 























THE ART OF DEFENSIVE BOXING 


Covering up. 






rT 


OR 


er, Your opponent will be piling 
points, and in combat a referee 
longer offer resistance. 


not do this for long, howev 
up a tremendous number of 
may stop the bout if you can no 


136 








CHAPTER 15 
| BY 
| , CHARLEY 
Sparring GOLDMAN 


Thx IS NO SUBSTITUTE 
for good condition in the sport of boxing. This is important 
not only to make a good showing in competition, but also 
because’a constitution that is keyed up properly is a better 
“shock-absorber” than one that is in poor shape. All the 
knowledge of offensive methods will be of little help if one 
is tired. Usually a fighter who is “bushed” or “out of gas” 
turns mostly to his defensive knowledge, because his re- 
flexes slow down. The flurries of punches or combinations 
So necessary at the proper time cannot be undertaken when 
one’s energies are dissipated. You have seen boxers on tele- 


_ vision who go like a house on fire for a couple of rounds, 


then slow down to a walk, and do nothing but catch, maul, 
or wrestle the rest of the distance. The furious onslaught 
which has the fans on their feet for a few short minutes 


suddenly turns into “self-preservation.” 


137 


SPARRING 


Before sparring, even for fun, you should have followed 
the bodybuilding course for at least three months, and be 
able to jog two or three miles without being noticeably 
tired. : 


EQUIPMENT FOR SAFE SPARRING 


You must have proper equipment in gymnasium work- 
outs. A well-padded, snug-fitting headgear is needed to ab- 
sorb the jolts of cuffs to the head and also to safeguard you 
against unnecessary cuts and bruises, brought on not only 
by the blows but by accidental buffs and body contact. 







‘Vers 

~ 7S 

x 7 pis 
} e 


Use a headgear for sparring. 


od Spiel | 


138 


SPARRING 





Head gears protect against severe injury. 











Next get yourself a good mouthpiece. This is a.factory- 
moulded piece of soft rubber which fits underneath your 
upper teeth and absorbs shocks and jolts that would other- 
wise chip or break your teeth. In some of the big cities there 
are dentists who take a fitting of your tooth structure and 
make mouthpieces to order. 

Another excellent reason for having one of these rubber 
protectors in your mouth is that you develop the habit of 
keeping your mouth closed and breathing through your 





139 

















SPARRING 


nose, which is the proper way in boxing. Many fractured 
or broken jaw bones have been caused by blows delivered 
to individuals who kept their mouth open when boxing. A 
foul-proof cup or jock is also a necessity when sparring. 
One that will cover the entire lower abdomen is best. In 
bouts or sessions between beginners or novices, these pre- 
cautions are needed to prevent great damage and pain, due 
to the wild, undirected blows of these newcomers, who 
seem to find the groin if no other target. Good, clean ample 
canvas hand-wraps, applied over the thumbs, knuckles and 
wrists, are a requisite to prevent broken hands and 
sprained wrists and thumbs. These must completely cover 
the hand and should be kept in place by small strips of non- 
waterproof (or plain) adhesive tape. Cover your face with 
some high-grade lubricant such as white vaseline or cocoa 
butter melted by the heat of your hands. ‘This will help to 
keep down the danger ot glove burns and cuts, due to glove 
leather striking your skin. The gloves used for sparring 
purposes should be selected with a great deal of care. The 
mittens should be the sixteen-ounce size. These are known 
sometimes as “big pillows.” The heavier the glove, usually 
the lighter the punch. A heavy glove has more padding and 
travels slower. When you have a big flat surtace such as one 
of these “pillows”. coming at you, it will be easier to see and 


block. Examine the seams and laces carefully. Make sure 


these parts are not broken or raised too much. A glancing 
blow that skids on your skin with a defective seam or lace 
can cause a nasty cut. Don’t use dried-out gloves that have 


140 













































SPARRING 


a hard leather surface. These can prove quite abrasive to 


the facial skin. : 


Make sure when you are sparring that you are boxing in 

a safe location—one that is free from pointed objects and 

; where, in case you fall or are pushed, you will not be in- 
jured. When sparring for fun, cut the time of rounds to two 
minutes instead of the official three: You will find three 


minutes too exhausting when beginning, even though you 
. consider yourself in the pink. 


SPARRING PARTNERS 


7 Select your spar-mates carefully. (That’s where a good 
trainer comes in.) Pick one who is not too experienced for 
you. If he has had a lot of ring work, if he wants to “move” 
or just take it easy with you, fine. But don’t go in with a 
show-off . In the fight game we usually mark them as devoid 
of genuine courage. Many of this type run for the nearest 
exit when confronted with legitimate competition. | 
When sparring, don’t see how much you can mess up 
your partner. Rather, see how smart and fast you can be. 
If you want to better yourself, keep going with better op- 
position. This is the way you will learn and advance. 


AFTER SPARRING 


| During sparring sessions, wear a T-shirt and an absorb- 
ent sweat shirt. After working out, go to a dry warm room 


free from drafts. Sit down and cover yourself well for about 


141 





SPARRING 


i n “sweat-out.” Take a hot 
show seeiduating {0 & vid one. We follow with a “or 
shower © close our pores and prevent colds. This ho ; 
ites pe fi larly in wintertime. Dry yourselt caret am 
sit ‘ou for another half hour before going out. a y 
nthletes ho are very finely trained are, believe it or not, 
white s ‘ stible to colds and sore throats. This 1S becaust 
ai work ut temporarily weakens us and in the shor 
f seeval our resistance may be lower than usu pan 
th ve to leave 
att how ve up. tn ying ne rubbing alcohol to your 
- _ «hel S “Jose the pores. Above all, make sure yout 
bait! ay Anothet good item to have around the gym ane 
home Se bottle of antiseptic. Use it after roadwork ane 
Son seriods, and before you retire, to help prevent sor 

throats (where athletes’ colds usually start). 


CHAPTER 16 










Trang 
for Boxing gy 
| ROCKY 


; Competition MARCIANO 


L. YOUR WORK OR SCHO- 
lastic day takes up your time from 9:00 A.m. to 5:00 P.M., 


you will, of necessity, have to do your training early or late. 
Try getting up at 5:30 a.m. Dress warmly in woolen shirt 
and undergarments, a cap or hat, and heavy shoes or 
combat shoes if you have them. Considering that you are in 
pretty fair condition due to previous bodybuilding work- 
outs, you can jog for two or three miles. Don’t force your- 
‘self, especially in the beginning. While running, shadow 
box, take deep breaths, breathing in through the nose and 
out through the mouth. Do this at frequent intervals. The 





143 
142 


TRAINING FOR BOXING COMPETITION 


movement of the arms will keep them from becoming stiff. 
In boxing, the body should be relaxed at all times. The 
habits you acquire while training will follow you right into 
combat. So keep your hands up in defensive position. 
Carry a couple of sponge rubber balls with you. Squeeze 
- them with regularity on yout road trips. This will help 
strengthen your fingers and fists, and also develop your grip 
and forearms. When you have completed the run, get back 
home immediately. Don't stall or let your perspiration 


grow cold and dry on you. 


windows closed as much as possible. Don’t allow yourself 
to be the target of drafts or cold breezes. 


As soon as you get home, 


shoes off and lie down for about twenty minutes with all. 
your clothes on. Take a shower and go back to bed until 


breakfast time. 


The diet for boxers is a little different from the one for 
bodybuilders. You should drink a lot of freshly squeezed 
dash of lemon. Do this two or three 
times a day. Citric juices are rich in Vitamin C, which pro- 
motes healing in the body. Also increase your protein in- 
take with meats, eggs, and so forth. The protein will supply 
the material needed to repair and rebuild worn-out cell 


orange juice with a 


tissues. 


- Ag soon as your work or school day is over, go to your 


gymnasium or where you 


clothes and shadow box for a couple of rounds. This will 


warm you up and take the 


144 


If you are driving, keep the 


gargle imediately. Take your 


work out. Get into your gym 


kinks out of your body. Then 











TRAINING FOR BOXING COMPETITION 


is _ 
- aoe gear for sparring. Go about two or three 
cee bai find yourself completely exhausted at the 
a sparring session it prove 
a S you are not in 
O 
. sore ees If you have a bout scheduled in the im 
| uture, you had better call it off. G fi 
. Get more traini 
in and add to your road : Saces 
. work. A genuine bout i : 
7“ 2 out is much more 
: — than a gym joust because when the chips are down 
= en to nervous tension. This increases our fea 
orces the body to work internally even when we 
nee Ing around. It dissipates energy that could be used 
e actual performance. You must judge your 
ness before the day of competition. _ — 
Af | | 
; 2 sparring, take off your head-gear and shadow box 
= : or a round with the big gloves on. Keeping strict 
oer one minute for rest and two or three minutes for 
a5 ; 
perc F : = to the heavy bag immediately. Practice your 
eon m inations and improve on mistakes you made 
oa f areas reat off your punching workout with 
| ag 1f you have one. After 
Brace a} : wards, do a few 
= oe pari IPM and finish off with calisthenics 
| ar attention to neck and | 
a | and stomach exercises. 
es a your dressing room right away. Bundle u st 
a - or about twenty minutes with a heavy nk 
aie a ae head. Cover your ears with the sides of it 
aoe oh e ends into your bathrobe. Then take a hot 
» lollowed by a cold one. Dry yourself thoroughly 


If you have any glov 
y ave any glove bruises or rope burns place some 
3 


whit 
e vaseline on your fingertips and rub the affected parts 


‘145 








TRAINING FOR BOXING COMPETITION 


Ee -G 








Heavy bag workout. 








146 





























TRAINING FOR BOXING COMPETITION 





Skip rope for conditioning. 


gently with a circular motion. If there are any cuts or abra- 
sions, clean them with a mild antiseptic. Then gargle again 
and get dressed. Sit around for awhile; then go directly 
home. At suppertime, stay away from fats, sweets, and any 
gas-forming foods. After eating do your homework or read 


‘to relax. Take a walk around the block before retiring— 


and retire early! 


147 


TRAINING FOR BOXING COMPETITION 


Sparring sessions should be terminated two days ane 
any scheduled contest. The day before the fight you sn rad 
your roadwork as usual, and if you feel up to it, go : 
gym for a very light workout. Punch the bags for a very 

. d skip the rope. 

a na ri of rl fight, am Do no exercise. If the es 
is at night, finish off a big steak with greens, rare pm ‘a 
or string beans. Have fruit for dessert. The meal s a 
finished by 3:00 p.m. Eat nothing and make no un 


sary exertions after that! 


148. 





CHAPTER 17 


Simple 


BY 


. -_ ROCKY 
Boxing Lips MARCIANO 


| 1. A STRAIGHT PUNCH IS 
always best. 


2. There is no substitute for good condition. 
3. Be careful of unknown trainers or seconds who brag 
about their ability to pass correct knowledge on to you. 
4. If you buy boxing equipment, buy the best. It’s the 


| cheapest in the long run. | 


5. Don’t put too much stock in the advice of young 


boxers. They, too, are learning. 


6. Develop all single punches to perfection (jab, hook, 


and so forth) before you use them in combinations. 


7. Boxing is a game of skill, which requires long hours 


_ of training and good reflexes. 


149 














SIMPLE BOXING TIPS 

8 When training for a bout, don’t neglect any part of 
your training routine (diet, roadwork, and so forth). You. 
will only fool yourself. 

9. Reaching the top of the boxing profession requires 
an enormous amount of determination. There is no short 
or easy way. - 

10. Watch good boxers in action. Study their moves. 
You will pick up some good tips that way. 


11. Jumping and hopping around is not good footwork. | 


12. A fighter who punches with his hands in front of 
him is not only better offensively, but also defensively. 

13. Speed and quick thinking are a boxer’s greatest 
assets. 

14. If you miss a punch, cover up; bob and weave im- 
mediately. That will help you avoid being hit by counter- 
punches. 

15. Don’t force yourself to work out when overly tired. 

16. When boxing, do not listen to the grandstand man- 
agers. Some fellows who consider themselves experts have 
been no closer to the game than T'V. 

17. When sparring, do not try to see how hard you can 
punch. Rather, see how clever and fast you can be. 

18. Roadwork is the best developer of endurance. 


19. Punches that have power yet travel only about six — 


inches show good coordination, and are usually the result 
of practice. 


150 








PART THREE 


_ BOXING IN ACTUAL 


COMBAT 


7 EDITOR’s NOTE 
n t « * | 
is part of their book, the authors will attempt something new 


_ In pugilistic instruction. They will describe two bouts in a blow-b 
- ye 


; shorter O j O 
Ppponent. The second will be a Short stocky boxer wh j 
| ) 1S 


more talented than his taller ri 
( : val. The superior b in 

as sae the problems that he faces ee ieae an : a 
ors believe that this wil] familiarize the beginner a 


problems of actual combat, and wi 
, and mh 
if he ever has to face them rnin show him how to deal with them 





Fi) nee aR ee . 





: 





CHAPTER 18 


Tall Boxer ®Y 


ROCKY 


US. Shorter aie 


CHARLEY 


7 | Opponent GOLDMAN 


L.. ENTERING THE RING 
now for my first bout in competition. I’m about five feet, 


eleven inches tall and weigh one-hundred-sixty pounds. I 


feel a little jittery, but I guess that’s natural for a beginner. 


I’m in my corner, about to face a boy named Tony. He’s . 
_ had about two fights and is built different than I am, almost 


my exact opposite. I’m considered tall for my weight, but 


- he’s short—a compact five feet six and one half inches. He 
looks tough and rugged. Right now my seconds are taking 


off my bathrobe and giving me some encouragement. 


- The’re also telling me to stick and move (jab and move to 
_ theright). 


153 


MARCIANO. 





TALL BOXER VS. SHORTER OPPONENT 


Now the referee calls us to the center of the ring. He te 
us he wants a nice clean fight and when he says oneages 
means it. Also he doesn’t want any hitting on the eh — 
says a low blow may cost one of us the round, ane i nae 
three-round amateur bout it could be the. fight. “Prote 
yourself at all times and now shake hands, go back to you 

me out fighting.” — 
ease to my it where my second places ra 
rubber mouthpiece in my mouth and takes my ncn 

away, reminding me again to stick and move. I turn arou j 
and look in the opposite corner at my opponent. His 
onds have just put his mouthpiece in place and are taking 


his bathrobe while saying something to him. 


ROUND ONE 


The bell! We both seem magnetized toward each other 
as we go toward the center of the roped square. - os 
approach, our guards automatically bone ene 7 
lunges at me suddenly with a wild left but I’m alittle jumpy 
and I bounce to my right. We both face each other again, 
and I shoot a jab toward him but he weaves out of the wee 
and when I miss I move to my right. Not a moment 
soon, either, for his left hook just swished by me. it 7 a 
been standing in that same spot I would have been hit. 7 
he sets himself again, moving toward me once more. 
notice he’s a little flat-footed and I can move out of his = 
without too much trouble. However, I realize that you can 


154 






































TALL BOXER VS. SHORTER OPPONENT 


win a bout wth fancy footwork. You have to score with 
punches. | 
As he comes toward me I shoot out a double jab combin- 
ation. He blocks the first one with his glove but the second 
one catches him on the bridge of the nose and halts him in 
his tracks. I try a straight right, but he has his left hand up 
and blocks it. I move again to my right. He grits his teeth 
and moves toward me. He throws a wild left hook at me, 
but I catch it on my right elbow, which is in defensive posi- 
tion at my side. I send out a sharp; short left jab, and it 
catches him once again on his nose. 
- He shrugs. his shoulders a little and seems perplexed. I 
try another right, but again I miss. I wonder if I’m doing 


_ something wrong. I always seem to fall short with my right 


hand. 


He comes at me again. I send a jab out, which catches 
him in the mouth and he throws a left which catches me in 
the stomach, but I was moving to my right so the blow 
didn’t have the effect it would have had, if Ihad been stand- 
ing still. | 

I throw a couple of double jabs which catch him in the 
center of his face. He throws a wide left which I catch on 
my right glove. It’s a hard wallop, I know, because it made 


' aresounding noise on my glove, which was up in pose posi- 
‘tion. [jab and throw a right again, but while my left catches 


him, he weaves out of the way of my right. He’s coming at 


"me, rushing me toward the ropes. He’s shooting short chops 


to my stomach, but I keep my hands close to my face and 


155 











TALL BOXER VS. SHORTER OPPONENT 


my elbows close to my side and push myseli towart hee 
This smothers his punches temporarily till I can er he 
right hand with my left glove, and force his left am un 
my right bicep. This holds him in vise-like fashion. othe 
- The ref comes rushing in and breaks us Up. I move ome 
right with my hands up, so he can't hit me with stoop 
“sneak” punch. Once again we re facing each ot . i. p se 
position. Then I shoot out a double jab and catck im on 
the nose once more, but he blocks my right and hits me 
the elbow with his own right as the bell rings. rhe 
As I walk back to my corner, my seconds seat i wy 
remove my mouthpiece. One holds my tights ie heap 
body and tells me to take a few deep breaths. on lan 
sponge me off. They tell me the reason I have been ; oe 
short with my right hand is very simple: I just sone a 
stepping in with my left foot when I jab and wi en ; os 
They also tell me to try some of the combinaten ett 
learned, such as the left jab and right uppercut, an 


jab-left hook combo. The ten second buzzer has just 


sounded and they’re placing my mouthpiece | back m 
They're stepping outside the ropes and reminding me ° 
step in with my punches. There’s the bell for start of roun 


two. 


RouND Two 


I shuffle in toward my opponent. Once again as I near 


him he tries his clumsy left hook. I can see it coming and as 


156 






































TALL BOXER VS. SHORTER OPPONENT 


I step back it swishes harmlessly in front of me. I step back 
in with a short right to the side of his head, following it with 
a crisp left hook which catches him in the face. He blinks 
his eyes, raises his hands near his jaw, and charges at me, 
trying to grab my arms. In turn, I grab his right arm with 
my left and send some short right uppercuts to his body and 
chin. He bulls me against the ropes and clutches me. The 
referee springs in and breaks us up. | 

We both move toward the center of the ring once again, 

both posing as we near one another. I move in and try a 
jab and uppercut combination as I had been advised. He 
“weaves away from my jab, but in ducking downward out of 
the range, he moves right into my uppercut. This raises his 
head up slightly, and I throw a short hook which catches 
him with a resounding whack on the side of the jaw. I can 
see he’s hurt now, and instead of his usual lunging tactics 
he starts to back up. _ 

I follow him moving in fast, catching him with my jab. 
This punch tilts his head back and I step in fast with a short 
left hook, as he tries to retreat. He staggers a little from the 
blow, and I step in and catch him with another jab on the 
nose. Then I try a fast one-two, a fast jab which is followed 
immediately by a sharp right cross. He goes down and the 
referee pushes me toward a neutral corner and starts to 
count over him. He looks up at the referee listening to the 
count,.and I can see he is fit to continue. He has speedy 
recuperative powers. 


He gets up at eight. The referee wipes off his gloves and 


157 








TALL BOXER VS. SHORTER OPPONENT 


signals me to come in and continue the bout. iva J ns | 
he charges toward me, and I meet his rush with a ] eon 
uppercut which send him = the ropes 
ing the second round. | | 
ran pen I go back to my corner. My sere nil 
through the usual routine of placing me on the as , : g 
out the mouthpiece, telling me to relax and breat : e P cM 
They also tell me that [am doing nicely. One of : a [ 
me there are only three minutes to go for the end of the ig ; 
and to make the most of them. He reminds me to ae 
the use of the jab-uppercut combinations along wit e 
jab and hook. He also tells me to try a lett lead feint, tos ed 
a little to my right and come back with my right uppercut. 


There goes the ten second buzzer. Back goes my mouth-- 


piece, and out of the ring go my seconds. 


ROUND THREE 


The bell rings and, pepped up, I advance toward my foe. 
L notice this time that he isn’t too anxious to mix 1t up we 
more but is backpedaling instead. It will be up to = 4 
make a fight of it now and get him out of his — she : 
I keep stalking him and when I get close to him he oe 
desper ation hook that I block with little difficulty on = 
right arm. I send out the same right in a counter move 





TALL BOXER VS. SHORTER OPPONENT 


my left glove and force his left wrist under my right bicep 
and use some short chops with my right fist to his side. I 
take my right glove and place it in back of his left elbow 
and push him away from me as the referee says “break.” 
As he backs up I catch him on the mouth with a sharp left 
hook. He brings his hands up in defensive position and 
“poses” at me. I try a feint with my left hand in jab-like 
fashion, extending it out an inch or so almost waving it at 
him. He tries to duck out of the way of the jab and once 
again ducks into my right uppercut. This raises his head 
Slightly, and I come back with a left hook which catches 
him on the side of the jaw. | 


He staggers back as I follow him in. I shoot a double jab 


- to his face and follow it with a face left hook and right 
cross. This sends him against the ropes. I use both hands to 
_ his body and follow it by bringing my right upppercut to 


his chin, stepping in with the punch and following it with a 
left hook to his jaw. He’s staggering around now, and I’m 
after him. I feel the urge to catch him with a one-two (fast 
left jab-right cross combination). I’m a little wild in my 


_ anxiety. I throw a series of punches, but I miss most of 


them. Finally I remember to keep cool. I move in with a 
fast jab, then step in with everything I’ve got, throwing it 


' into a straight right to the jaw. Down he goes, and the 
' referee awards the bout to me. 





catch him a glancing blow on the head. He charges toward 
me, but not offensively. He tries to erab me to smother vel 
punches. I grab his right arm at the crook of the elbow wit 








159 
“158 















































CHAPTER 19 


Short Man ®Y¥ 


ROCKY 


MARCIANO 
vs. Taller aye 
CHARLEY 


Opponent GOLDMAN 


l., FIVE FEET TEN, WEIGHT 
one-hundred-eighty pounds. ’'m going to face a boy six feet 
two, weighing two-hundred pounds. 


ROUND ONE 


There’s the bell; we move to the center of the ring. As 
we near each other, he shoots out a long jab which I easily 
avoid by moving my head to the right. He goes to his right. 
With his long arms I must try to keep close to him and in- 
side his reach. That means I must continually press the 


161 





SHORT MAN VS. TALLER OPPONENT 
bout by shuffling in and keeping “on top” of him. My dis- 
advantage in reach makes it necessary to concentrate on 
his midsection until I can wear him down to my size. Then 
Lwill be able to get some good licks in at his face. 

I’m moving toward him again. I weave my head from 
side to side to make it a moving target and to get it out of 
the range of his snake-like jabs. He shoots a long left out 
at me which I catch in the palm of my right glove. ‘Then he 
steps to his right and sends in another one of his fast jabs, 
following it with a right cross which I catch on my shoul- 
der. I move in close to him, almost burying my head on his 
chest. I place my left hand inside his right arm and my right 
arm inside his left and push his arms away from his body. 
Then I push myself toward him, forcing -his arms out, and 
sort-of keeping him off balance, and send a flurry of short 
punches to his exposed midsection. | 

[keep charging forward, punching away at his body, but 
he grabs me in his octopus-like arms and tries to toss me 
around, because of his weight advantage. I hold on and 
lean on him, hoping to make him waste his strength until 
the referee.comes in and breaks us up. We both strike up a 
defensive pose and move to our right. He flicks out a couple 
of lefts at me, and because of his greater reach, he catches 
me with one of them on the nose. I charge forward, crowd- 
ing him. I’ve been taught to make my opponent fight my 
fight. And my fight is to get in and stay on the inside. He 
needs room to punch, and I’m not going to give him any. 

As I come in, he suddenly jabs and tosses a wild upper- 


162 





SHORT MAN VS. TALLER OPPONENT 


cut at me. Fortunately I see it coming and, placing my fore- 
arm in front of my face, I catch it at the crook of his arm 
blocking the blow. Then I counter by sending a short right 
chop to his face. I try a left hook as he is moving to the 
right, and I swish the air. He tries to counter me with his 
right hand, but he doesn’t step in. With my bobbing and 
weaving style it falls short. Then he moves away, with me 
following. He sends out a jab that I weave away from and 
counter with a long right cross to his side. I follow it with a 
left hook, but he blocks it on his right elbow which was 
near his side. He skips to his right now, and I shuffle toward 
him as the bell rings. | . 

As I sit down in the corner I get the usual treatment of 
mouthpiece removal, deep breathing, and so forth. M 
chief second then lays out the strategy for the next echd, 
He tells me I must out-think this opponent, and in order to 
hit him solidly and effectively I must feint him into posi- 
tion. He advises me to try a head or face feint. In this way 
my opponent who is a jumpy individual will jab out in 
self-defense to keep me away. While he is jabbing, I am to 
move to the right and cross my own right A his left 
quickly to his chin. He also tells me to press the fight; to 
keep in close and work on his midsection as I have a 


doing. | 
RouNnD Two. 


The ten-second warning buzzer sounds. In goes my 
mouthpiece, out of the ring go my seconds. Then the bell. 


163 


SHORT MAN VS. TALLER OPPONENT 


I go toward my rival, shuffling in and bobbing and weav- 
ing. I am going to try to get him against the ropes or in a 
corner, so he can’t run away from me and I will be able 
i or a solid blow. 
© spears ce him into one of the corners, but like 
a scared jackrabbit he tries to jump out. As he SCUITICS on 
his right I send a looping left hook to cut off his escape. He 
runs into it, but his gloves partially block it, although part 
of my glove catches him in the face. I follow him quickly. 
He sends a couple of defensive jabs at me, but because he 
is backing away they fall short. I still press him, and he 
keeps going. Suddenly he stands his ground. Now I ee 
have my chance. I sort of push my face out at him, as 
I’m going to move toward him. He shoots out his jab; = 
ticipating it, I move quickly to my right, and send a — 
fast right cross over his shoulder and down at his jaw. T en 
I follow quickly with a left hook. These punches hurt him 
and he starts to retreat once again, with me following as 
— him in a corner and pound away at his midsection. 
I get in a couple of restricted punches to his midsection, 
and he holds me tighter as the ref comes in to break up this 
clinch. | | 
As he backs up once again, he sends out his long jab. 
I parry it or knock it down with my right glove and send : 
sharp left hook to his body. He chops out with a right ee 
that cuffs me on the side of my head. The punch doesn’t 
bother me, and I charge him again, keeping close, pouring 


164 





SHORT MAN VS. TALLER OPPONENT 


a volley of punches to his body. Then I bring them up to 
his head. He slides away from the ropes, but I’m still in 
pursuit. He jabs at me again. I go to my own right again 
and send a cross over his left to his jaw, sending him into 
the ropes as the bell rings. I notice he is a little woozy as 
he walks back to his corner. 

I'm back in my corner again, going through the usual 
routine. My seconds remind me to keep pressing him, to 
avoid giving him a chance to rest, to keep on top of him. 
The bell rings, and I start out toward him again. 


RouND THREE 


I notice he tries to retreat immediately. I keep shuffling 
taward him, trying to trap him against the ropes or in a 
corner. Finally I get him into one of the corners. He realizes 
I am trying to trap him, and he tries to get out. I keep 
punching at him, keeping him in there. Those massive arms 
of his are a strong defense, and it’s tough to get a good 
crack. Once again he wraps his powerful arms about me 


to. thwart my punches. The referee comes in and breaks 


us up. I notice, as my rival steps back, that he relaxes his 
guard and walks back carelessly with his arms down, leav- 


- Ing his chin unprotected. I step in immediately with a hard 
_left hook to his jaw. He falls back against the ropes, and 


as he bounces out I shoot a hard right toward his jaw. 


' However, I am too anxious. I misjudge my distance and 


miss an opportunity for a haymaker. However, he is still 


165 








SHORT MAN VS. TALLER OPPONENT 


a little dazed and I’m on him in a rush. I send my lefts and 
rights to his body and keep close to him. He tries a pawing 
left at me in jab-like fashion. I parry it with my right hand 
and step in with a vicious left hook to his solar plexus. 
I see him wince, and I know I’ve got him going. There’s no 
time to lose. I rip both hands to his body. I force him into 
a corner with a two-fisted body-and-head attack. I jab him 
twice and send him reeling toward the ropes again. As he 
comes off I measure him and send a straight right that 
catches him solidly on the button. I follow it quickly in 
combination with a left hook to his jaw. He sags and goes 
down and out! 


166 











PART FOUR 


CHAMPION AGAINST 
CHAMPION 


om 7 EpIToRr’s NoTE 
vou “ “escription of how Rocky Marciano and Charley Goldman 
Chamtion ‘ ou sans: Floyd Patterson, the present H eavyweight 
oj the World, if the two fighters were e 
orld ver to meet, is in- 
tended to give boxing instruction by reporting the details of their 


hypothetical match. Bel 5 
story of the fight. ow, in Charley Goldman’s words, is the full 














CHAPTER 20 


How We 
Would Whip  ®¥ 


ROCKY. 


Floyd -MARCIANO 


AND 
7 CHARLEY 
—- Patterson : GOLDMAN 


=. THINK PATTERSON’S A 
great potential fighter. Maybe it seems strange to use a 


word like “potential” about a man who’s already the 
Heavyweight Champion, and a man who has the impres- 
sive won-and-lost record Patterson does. But, forgetting 
Moore, who was past his peak when Floyd faced him and 
who I think Rocky softened up for Patterson, the only 
first-class opponent Floyd has met was Tommy “Hurri- 
cane” Jackson. In their elimination bout, Floyd hit Jack- 


: | 169 





























FEEL 








HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


son with everything but couldn’t put him cp oie a : 
was his broken hand that hindered him. When ed ee 
cessfully defended his title against Jackson, J = O — 
he was a very improved boy. He floored Jac ~ = 
times, and the referee had to Std i in the tenth. 
7 > was on his feet at the end. | | ; 
acai I think Rocky could have put “Hurric - 
out for good if he’d gone up against. him. Any — - 
will agree, I’m sure, that Jackson-was never a ee : : 
He’s always been easy to reach. And in each fa il 
fights against such men as Joe Walcott, Roland pe : = 
Ezzard Charles, and a younger Archie Moore, n 


threw enough leather to put “Hurricane” away three times 
aa just hasn’t had the chance to g0 up ren a = 
series of first-class opponents, and that’s the kind o “~ : 
ing every world champion needs. In future bouts; | e — 
get that chance and turn his great Se Into . y- 
But until he does, I’ve still got to call it potential. 

I’m not taking anything away from Ee i ak 
he’s going to make a great champion, ane I’m loo saeaa 
ward to his future bouts. Rocky is retired, and that mea! 


retired. But if he were to come back, I’m honest enough to 


say I think he’d have a tougher scrap on his ey with 

Floyd than with any other top heavyweight re a 7 
Still, ’m positive my boy could win such a fig : te = : 

a pretty good idea of how the bout would go, an , 


170 





HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


to tell you why I feel so confident, and show you—blow-by- 
blow—just how the fight might take place. 
Floyd and Rocky might be compared on four important 


points: strength, speed, endurance, and defense. Let’s take 
them one by one. 


As far as strength is concerned, I think Rocky has that 
‘way over Floyd. He has given better than he got from 
punchers like Walcott, Charles, and Moore, and he stood 
toe-to-toe against most of the hard hitters in his career. 
Floyd’s been managed very cautiously and has never been 
put in a spot where he’d be forced to take a licking. With 
his comparatively slender build, I don’t think Patterson 
could take too much of a battering. I think, for example, 
he’d be especially vulnerable around the rib region. 

Where speed’s concerned, Floyd would have it all over 
Rocky. A slender fighter can usually get around faster than 
a man built the way Marciano is, and Floyd’s extra speed 
might be a definite advantage. Even the fastest fighter, 
though, can be slowed down by a good shot to the jaw or 


stomach, and we’d try to counterbalance Floyd’s advan- 
| 5 


tage that way. 


As for endurance, I’ve got to fall back on that word 


“potential” again. Floyd just hasn’t been put in the spot 


to show his staying power. He’s never met a consistently 
powerful attack. On the other hand, I think most of 


Rocky’s title fights gave convincing proof of his endurance. 


In his first bout with Ezzard Charles, a real tough match © 


171 


HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


that went the route, Rocky was just as strong at the finish 
ted. | 
. ve defense, I'd have to make it even. Maybe you ll 
think I’m giving Rocky a break here. I don t en * 
The boys have completely different styles, but t - rs _ 
are nearly the same. People say Rocky S easy to hit— ut 
when a man is bobbing and weaving, keeping pressure 
his man, it makes his opponent think twice before ners 
his own punches. Patterson stands up pretty straig “me 
doesn’t crouch the way The Rock does. Floyd has a - 
arm defense, one of the best, but you can be hurt " 
blows on the arms just like anywhere else. | know ne - 
Walcott’s arms were sore for two weeks after our 5 . 
Roland LaStarza, another good defensive fighter, . a 
broken blood vessels all over his arms alter Rocky’s ° 
with him. And Floyd’s arm defense isn t unpre . 
“Hurricane” Jackson proved that Patterson can be reache 
sn doping this fight out in advance, we had to “. som 
guessing. But remember, we’re in a position to make W 
“informed guess.” | 
" “anyone can win a fight on paper, you may be says to 
yourself. Well, don’t forget Rocky and I won our snare 


in the ring. I think we have a right to engage in one paper - 


fight, especially when everyone is saying it would really ~ 
the “Fight of the Century” if it ever took place. You'l 
notice, by the way, that in predicting this bout, blow-by- 


172 




















HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


blow, we admit we’d probably make a mistake or two. 
We've made mistakes before. But so far we’ve always been 
able to “correct” them. Floyd Patterson is a pretty slick 
fellow. He frankly has more finesse than Rocky. We don’t 
think he’d make many serious mistakes in a fight like this— 
but where Rocky could make a half dozen mistakes and 
get away with them against Patterson, I don’t think Patter- 
son could afford to make one mistake with Marciano. 
Well, let’s get started. If Rocky were to come out of re- 
tirement, here’s how the Marciano-Patterson bout might 
go. 


Let’s say it’s a warm June evening. The bout’s taking 


_ , place at Yankee Stadium, and the scalpers are asking up to 


two hundred dollars for a ticket, the way they have for 


. other fights of ours. The hotels are crowded. People from 


all over the country are pouring into town for the fight. 
Even on the night of a fight, Rocky is usually calm, and I 
think he’d be calm this night. Around ten o’clock, an 
inspector for the New York State Athletic Commission 


- would come into our dressing room and tell us we’re on. 


We'd take that long walk behind New York’s “Finest” 


, up from the dressing room to ringside. The crowd would 


start cheering before we reached the ring, and then there’d 
be quiet for the usual round of announcements and intro- 


_ductions. After these were over, Floyd and Rocky would 


be in the ring with their handlers and the referee. The bell 


173 


HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


would ring, and Johnny Addie would hold the microphone 


n: 
hae it heavyweight championship of the ee 
rounds. In this corner, wearing black trunks Me A 
stripes, he weighs 190 pounds, the nga ea 
Heavyweight Champion of the World, from Bro n, 
tts—Rocky Marciano.” | 
aeons for the pee to stop cheering and then go on: 
“Tn this corner, wearing white trunks with black ee 
he weighs 18514, coming from Brooklyn, oes Loomer : 
Heavyweight Champion of the World—Floy - oa 
There’d be another cheer then. I think Rocky a on 
betting favorite, and so maybe the cheer for Floyd wou 
* a pa out to the center of the ring and get a 
instructions, then go back to their corners. The ti - - 
now be empty of everyone except Floyd, “ : pou nd 
referee. A few seconds later—a second that ee : 
hour—the bell would ring and the bout would S oF . 
Here’s how the fight might be reported from ringside by 


qa veteran announcer. 


RouUND ONE 


- Both men move toward the center of the ring, Patterson 


with his gloves up near his face, Marciano bobbing and 


weav V WwW | eints 
eaving, moving for ard in a crouch. Patterson f 
; ? 


twice toward the head and then lunges in with that triple 


174 























HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


left hook of his. Rocky stops the blows with his right glove. 
Now Floyd shifts to his right, and Marciano comes for- 
ward, still bobbing and weaving. The former champ keeps 
his head. moving from side to side, and his right hand is 
higher than usual. Patterson stabs two lightning lefts in the 
direction of Rocky’s face and catches the Brockton boy 


' high on the forehead as Rocky dances back. Floyd shoots 


a left jab that catches Rocky over the heart. Now Patterson 
comes in fast and tries to hold Rocky and hit him, but 
Marciano is too strong for him. The champ seems keyed up 
as he dances in front of Rocky, first to the right, then 
Switching to the left. So far there hasn’t been much real 


‘action, but the crowd is breathless. Suddenly a huge roar 


| goes up as the Rock lashes out with a wild right, misses and 
leaves himself open. Reacting with the speed of a cobra, 


_ Patterson drills a solid left to Marciano’s jaw, a left and a 


tight to the heart, and a right to the jaw, and the Rock is 
staggered. Floyd waits for him to go down but, instead, 


' Rocky charges Patterson wildly with a terrific barrage of 


blows. Patterson blocks most of the punches, and they 


Clinch. As they separate, Marciano again misses a long 
right but this time catches Patterson on the arm with a left 


hook. Floyd backs away and starts dancing again. Marci- 
ano continues to press forward. Floyd feints with a left, 


circles around a bit and then moves in fast with a flurry of 


punches, most of them landing on Rocky’s arms and shoul- 


175 











i 
I 
: 

i 
re 





t 
i 
a 
« 
' 








HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


ders. A long overhand right grazes Marciano’s. mee 
They fall into a clinch. Marciano pounds four "e “e 
the side and brings up a short left inside that jus | gr im 
Patterson’s chin. Floyd has trouble holding Rocky's - i 
in the clinches, and Marciano is moving out and aroun 


the bell. 


RounbD Two 


Marciano moves out slowly and cautiously, but cage 
to take the offensive. Patterson begins to mor sob 
still holding those arms close to his side and gloves s 
Floyd looks as if he means to box Rocky at long ae ; \ 
dances nimbly to his right, trying to feint Rocky _ : 
position, but the Rock doesn't fall for 1t. Ro elo ; 
long overhand right that just grazes Floyd ‘ — a 
attempts to counter with a right uppercut, ut t nee 
catches it on his right forearm. Marciano moves - -_ 
He wants to pin Patterson against the ropes, but _ a 
lyn boy will have none of me ame eae ° yr ee 
e ring. Patterson crouches, ted 3 at Ma 
vith hi famous “gazelle pune leading ae ae 
at his opponent. Marciano | 
casily, bobbing vnaderneath and simultaneously ee 
solid right to the heart. Staggered, Patterson pe 


ward as Rocky sends a hard right chop to the jaw, and then 


a left and a right to the body. Floyd moves away quickly, 


176 








HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


jabbing as he goes backward, and Marciano continues to 
press him. They fall into a clinch and the referee quickly 
separates them. Patterson comes back fast and catches 
Marciano with two quick jabs on the nose. His right cross 
lands on Rocky’s chin and shoulder, losing the full impact 
of the punch. The Rock pounds rights and lefts to Floyd’s 
midsection and Floyd covers up. Floyd lands a hard, quick 
one-two to the head. Rocky feints to the head and catches 
Patterson in the midsection with a good right. Patterson 
lands a straight right to Rocky’s jaw, again shaking him up 
momentarily and follows up with two lefts, another right, 
two more lefts, and a right. Marciano bulls his way forward 
into a clinch and holds Patterson, then blasts both hands 
to the body. The crowd is roaring. Patterson comes back 


with a flurry of punches, and they slug it out, toé to toe, at 
the bell. 


ROUND THREE 


Both men come out to the center of the ring. Floyd starts 


" to circle to his right, with Rocky plodding after him, still 


bobbing and weaving and still fighting out of a crouch. 


- Rocky bulls Floyd against the ropes in Patterson’s corner, 


but Patterson lunges in and tries to hold Marciano. The 
Rock fights him off and Patterson moves around with 


Rocky pressing him all the way. Patterson, pinned in a 


corner, tries to wrestle with Marciano and finds himself 


177 


HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 
picked off his feet. The crowd laughs and the referee warns 
Rocky. Rocky goes back after Floyd again, his face al 
mined. He lets go with an overhand right and left hook, 
missing with both punches as Patterson agilely fans 
away. Marciano tries two jabs and catches Floyd on the 
mouth, making him break ground. Now Patterson one 
a left-right-left combination to Marciano’s body, and Floy 
lands with a solid left hook to the face, a left to the body, a 
left to the jaw, and a right uppercut. Rocky crouches low 
but keeps coming forward, almost driving, pushing Patter- 
son against the ropes again, but the Brooklyn boxer once 
more eludes him. Patterson leaps in again, but finds no 
target as Rocky bobs and weaves. Floyd’s quick jab catches 
Marciano on top of the head as the Rock bulls forward. 
They fall into a clinch and Marciano, attempting to fight 
his way out, roughs Floyd up again. Patterson squirms 
loose and starts moving around. He catches Marciano with 
a lightning fast one-two, then two solid lefts and a right to 
the head. Marciano stops, then chases Patterson and 
catches him with two hard rights to the head at the bell. 


RouND FOUR 


Both men move to the center of the ring once again. 
Floyd takes the lead with two fast jabs and a right upper- 
cut, but Marciano counters with his own right, tagging 
Patterson high on the cheekbone. Floyd dances around in 


178 























HOW WE WOULD -WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


his flashy way. He seems a little more relaxed now, almost 
careless; his hands are not so close to his body, but he’s 
moving his head from side to side. He tries a jab, then 
another, but they’re both short of the mark. Marciano tries 
two jabs and pushes Patterson back. Marciano’s on the 
move again, pressing forward. He bulls Floyd against the 
ropes and buckles his knees with two solid right hand 
smashes to the side. Patterson tries to hold on, but Matci- 
ano rips both hands to the body. His head against Patter: 
son’s chest, Marciano smashes both hands hard to Patter- 
son’s body again, and the crowd roars as Rocky lets Floyd 
have it with a one-two, both blows flush on the jaw. Patter- 
son drops to the canvas, rolls over, and then rests on one 


knee as the referee counts to eight. Patterson gets up 
_ Slowly, and the referee wipes off his gloves. The champion 


seems to be all tight as he moves quickly away. Patterson 
nails Marciano with a hard left on the jaw as Rocky at- 
tempts to close in on him. The crowd is roaring louder than 
ever. Patterson again jabs Marciano on the side of the 


_head as Marciano presses in, but Rocky rips another good 


left hook to the midsection. He forces Patterson against the 


_Topes. Rocky is flailing Patterson with rights and lefts. 


Patterson grabs Marciano around the neck with both 
hands and Rocky batters both hands to the body. Patterson 


‘dances away, trying to stay out of range as Marciano re- 


lentlessly continues: to press forward,.Rocky tries a long 


179 





site 





HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


right that misses. Patterson counters with two lefts and a 
right, another left, and a right uppercut, and a club to the 
ear at the bell. : 


ROUND FIVE 


Patterson comes out of his corner and moves to the right. 
Marciano stalks after him. Patterson tries to feint Marct- 
ano, but the former champ keeps pressing. Patterson tries 
a double left jab, but Rocky catches them on his right 
glove. Rocky throws a right that catches Floyd on top of 
the head and stuns him slightly, sending him back a couple 
of feet. Rocky practically runs after Floyd now. Patterson 
seems to be tiring. Rocky misses with a terrific right hay- 
maker, as Floyd gains his balance and ducks away just in 
time. Rocky presses toward Patterson, who is backpedal- 
ing desperately, in full retreat. The Rock forces Paneer 
against the ropes and pins him there with a volley ° 
punches to the midsection. Floyd blocks most of them with 
his arms, but a few stray blows get through. Patterson. 

slides away again and moves to the center of the ring. 
Floyd tries two jabs that Marciano easily brushes away 
with his right hand. Patterson has slowed down consider- 
ably; he’s on his bicycle now, with Marciano plodding after 
him. Rocky throws a few wild punches, but they re all 
short. Patterson is still backing off, flipping annoying left 
jabs to Marciano’s face. ‘They move in at close range, and 
Rocky pounds a left and a right.to the body as Patterson 


180 











count... three... four... five... six. 

















HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


grabs and holds on. The referee breaks them up and, as 
they move away, Patterson sends two hard lefts to Rocky’s 


right eye. As the bell rings, it looks as if Marciano is bleed- 
ing from a cut over the eye. 


Rounp Six 


Marciano comes out quickly now, his eye patched. He 


appears determined as he moves toward Patterson. Floyd 


meets him with two light jabs, but Rocky rolls under them 
and sends a short right to Floyd’s ribs that makes him 
wince. Patterson backs up now, his mouth slightly open. 
He’s going on his bicycle again, retreating from the assault. 
Marciano grazes Patterson with a looping right, then hurts 
him with two hard rights to the body. The Rock comes 
forward again toward the tiring boy from Brooklyn, throw- 
‘ing left-right combinations to the body. Marciano bulls 
Patterson into Floyd’s own corner. A left goes home to 
Floyd’s ribs, a right to his head. Patterson tries to cover up. 
He’s bleeding from the mouth. The crowd is on its feet 
screaming for the kill. Marciano is pounding away at the 


midsection now. Rocky drives a left, a right and another 
left to the body. He rips Patterson’s face with a short right 
uppercut. Patterson is staggered by a left to the head and 


Rocky smashes him to the canvas with a series of chopping 
rights to the side of the head. The referee picks up the 


.. Seven... eight 


18] 














HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


_.. and Patterson wearily climbs to his feet at eight. The 
referee wipes off the champion’s gloves and motions for 
the fight to continue. The Rock is at fever pitch now. He 
moves in, digging lefts and rights to the body. Patterson 
tries to dance back, but the spring is gone from the Brook- 
lyn boy’s legs. Rocky drives his opponent into the ropes as 
Patterson tries to cover up. A left and a right, a left and a 
clubbing right—and Patterson sinks down to the canvas 
again. The crowd roars. Floyd's on all fours. His eyes are 
glassy as he listens to the count. Three... four... five 
_six... he tries to pull himself up on the ropes . . . seven 
.. eight... nine... and he just makes it at the count of 
nine. The referee wipes off Floyd’s gloves, looks at him, 
hesitates a moment, then signals Rocky in. Patterson 1s 
floundering. He appears defenseless. Rocky rushes in and 
catches him with a terrific overhand right to the side of the 
head, driving him half way across the ring into the ropes, 
where he is draped grotesquely on the upper strand. The 
referee doesn’t even bother to count. The fight is over. 


SPECIAL NOTE 


Fight fans have debated since the dawn of boxing how 
bouts between ring greats would have come out. Great 
fighters do not always emerge in the same period. The 
Almighty seems to sprinkle only a few in every generation. 

Naturally, the hottest “dream fight” right now is the one 


182 





on what I base my opinion. 








HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


between Rocky and Floyd Patterson. I think, in all humble- 
ness, that I am better qualified than any other person alive 
0 | help Rocky plan such a fight and to predict its outcome. 
entra as remind my readers that I picked Patter- 
nto defeat Archie Moore when they met i 
Novenben 1 they met in Chicago last 
This account of what would happen if—and I wish I 
could say “when”—Rocky Marciano were to fight Floyd 
Patterson was worked out very carefully by Rocky. and 
myself. It represents our honest opinion of how the fight 
would go and shows just how we would plan our strategy 
aiming for a knockout in a fairly early round. There’s no 
question in our minds but that this would 
rett . 
the pattern of the bout. _ me * 
Rocky and I had a lot of fun planning this “ficht.” Even 
hoe it’s only on paper, if by some chance Rocky ever 
a ange his mind and this fight actually takes place 
nk you would find our account re . | 
the actual-event. | mameny close te 
People may think I am biased, but those who know me 
Nae tell you that I never make statements that are without 
oundation. I sincerely believe the fight would go very 


‘much the way we have described it. 


I would like to review very briefly some of the highlights 


of Marciano’s career that should show the average layman 


Rocky did not quit because he was through, like many 


183 


HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


fighters. He could have gone on for a few more years be- 
cause he was always a clean liver. He retired because of his 
great love for his family and because he had no need to 
continue. He was well fixed financially. In training, Rocky 
was a Spartan, and he made himself a martyr to the boring 
training routine. To my knowledge, no fighter ever dedi- 
cated himself more willingly to his task or his career than 
this fine young man from Brockton. Every exercise and 
training period was on a predetermined schedule. Every 
particle of food had to be just so for the training table. 
There was no wavering in Rocky's self-denial and 
willingness to endure, though temptation appeared many 
times. Fans must remember that I have seen thousands of 
boys come and go. I have been in every phase of the com- 
plicated boxing business—fighter, manager, promoter, and 


also in the capacity of trainer for five world’s champions, — 


including the greatest of them all—Rocky. 
There are some people who may dispute my statement, 
and they have a right to their opinion, provided that they 


have been around long enough to see some of the so-called © 


greats. In my book, results are what count. There is no 
substitute for winning, and Rocky had forty-nine victories 
in as many fights. He was the first undefeated boxer ever to 


win the heavyweight championship. He may very well 


have set a precedent that will never be duplicated. 
I would like to give you a rundown on some of his 
greatest bouts, which show some of the wonderful attri- 


184 


ni aa eee Ea mea 


aa tae 


a 


. 

i 

ui 

| 
q 
ql 
| 
: 
al 
q 





HOW WE’ WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 


butes he possesses. In his bout with Rex Layne, he was 
facing a hard-hitting, extremely rugged individual who 
possessed a chin of iron, as they say in the fight | ame 
Rocky’s explosive fist crumpled him for Keeps in a 
round. As a result of the pounding he received, Layne 
never was the same, pugilistically speaking. Take the ne 
of Marciano’s fights with Joe Walcott, Roland LaStarza 
Ezzard Charles, and Archie Moore. They too, like La ~~ 
never returned to their previous form after on aa 
with the Brockton destroyer. In fact, I believe har atte 
woot paraeicd won the title for Patterson by handing seas 
sie i —" to Archie Moore, in Rocky’s final defense of 


Rocky’s punches are almost lethal. Even when he hits 


you on the arms and shoulders he hurts you. In going 


a ay : e 
gainst the aforementioned group, he was facing men near 


the peak of their careers. In these bouts he was thoroughly 


tested. Here were men who were well seasoned in ring war 
fare. Men who knew all the tricks, and who also sitio 
real punching power. Yet they all succumbed to Marcian 
Let's take a look at Patterson and see how he stacks 7 , 
en the “Rock.” As I previously said, Marciano 4 
een through the mill, fistically speaking. Floyd has not 
Floyd may have great potential, but I can’t go alon with 
the theory that he is in the immortal class despite hi : 
pressive won and lost record. : _ 
Fhe only opponent of any merit Patterson has been 
called upon to face, outside of a “spent” Moore, was 


185 






































HOW WE WOULD WHIP FLOYD PATTERSON 
Tommy “Hurricane” Jackson, and he had to be content 
with a split decision and a T.K.O. Had Rocky Marciano 


faced the same Jackson on either of those evenings, he. 


would have literally destroyed |! him in short order because 
of Jackson’s wide open “defense.” 

Tm sure that anyone with even a little knowledge of the 
boxing game will agree with me that had Jackson sampled 
Marcianio’s bombs he would not have been vertical at the 
finish. And I’d be willing to bet dollars to doughnuts that 
young Floyd Patterson would find himself in exactly the 
same position—flat on the canvas-—if Rocky ever changes 
his mind and climbs into the ring with Floyd. But what a 
bout it would be! That’s one fight I’d want to watch even 
if I had to pay to get in! 


186 





\ 


PART FIVE 


SIMPLE JUDO 





CHAPTER 21 


“Introducton 


AL | 
to Judo BACHMAN 


[| eee IN BODYBUILDING 
and boxing will help any boy to become proficient in the 


art of Judo. Bodybuilding. supplies strength—the force 


needed to apply holds and overcome defensive resistance. 


Boxing develops speed and alertness, and sharpens the re- 


flexes for offensive and defensive action. 

You might wonder at this point why an individual in 
good physical condition who knows how to box would find 
Judo necessary or useful. Wouldn’t strength and boxing 


_ skill be enough? The answer is no, for a number of reasons. 


1. A person may have occasion at various times in his 
life to defend himself or others without doing any actual 
harm to the aggressor. Using a punch to defeat an Op- 
ponent will always cause some damage, especially if. the 


189 





INTRODUCTION TO JUDO 


fists aren’t gloved. The aggressor may be sick, mentally or 
physically, drunk, or otherwise not responsible for his 
actions. In this event, you wouldn’t want to hurt him if it 
could be avoided. There are a number of moves and holds 
in Judo that will prevent an opponent from doing any 
damage without actually harming him in any way. 

2. Itis entirely possible that your opponent will be more 
than your equal in both strength and boxing skill. A 130- 
pound boxer in top physical condition will still be at a dis- 
advantage if the aggressor is over 200 pounds, in good 
shape, and able to handle himself. Judo will make up the 
difference. 

3. A boxer could be attacked in such a way that he 
would find himself unable to make use of his boxing knowl- 
edge. Judo will aid a man who is jumped from behind, by 
more than one aggressor, and so forth. 

4. A boxer fights in the ring under a very strict set of 
rules. When he is engaged in a bout, he realizes that his 
opponent is restrained from butting, low punching, kick- 
ing, rabbit-punching, and so on. Outside the ring he may 
be attacked by an opponent who does not recognize these 
rules. - 


5. In gang fights, muggings, and so forth, the aggressor | 


or aggressors are often armed. Excellence in boxing will 
not be an adequate defense in such cases, Judo will off-set 
the mechanical advantages—knives, sticks, and even guns 
—of cowardly or criminal attackers. 

In Judo, some of the basic laws of the science of physics 


190. 


# 





INTRODUCTION TO JUDO 


are put to use. These include among others the laws of 
momentum and gravity, and the principles of the lever and 
the fulcrum. Have you ever tried to push a car that has 
stalled and is standing still? If you have, you probably 
found it very difficult to move. The law of inertia holds it 
in its state of nonmotion. It takes a great deal of force to 
change nonmotion to motion in a heavy object. But once 
the car has started rolling, you find it comparatively easy 
to keep it going. It doesn’t take nearly as much effort. 
The same principle holds true in Judo. It is mighty tough 
work to try to move or spin an opponent if he is set or stand- 
ing still. But when he is moving, a slight push, shove, or 
tug correctly applied will make him do just what you want 
him to do. He can be defeated with his own.momentum. 
Combine this power of controlling the movement and 
strength of an aggressor with holds that will immobilize 


or weaken him, and you have an excellent defensive 


weapon. Remember the word defensive. Judo should never 
be used to attack an innocent person. Nor should it be 
used for fun. Judo isn’t a game. | 

This brief course on Judo will give you the funda- 
mentals. You will be presented with problems that could 


arise in your lifetime. Then you will be shown the simplest 


way of handling them. 


191 | 

















CHAPTER 22 


Safe 


AL 
Judo | BACHMAN 


BY 


Y SAFE JUDO WE. MEAN 
holds to be used when you have no intention of hurting 
anyone. For example, a drunkard whom you want to keep 
in line for your own self-respect and yet not harm, because 
you know he is a nice person when sober. Or perhaps a 
show-off who must be kept in his place without inflicting 
bodily i injury. 


EXERCISE NO. 1 


Problem: Your adversary is facing you and takes a swipe at you 
with his right hand. 


Course of action: 


1. Step to your left quickly. With your left hand grab his 
right hand, digging your fingers into the base of his palm, below 


193 


SAFE JUDO 


his thumb. With your own thumb, apply pressure to the back 
of his hand. | 
2. Step closer to him, bringing your left foot in back of his 

right heel. | 

3. Twist his hand down and then upward so that his palm is 
overlooking his own right shoulder. (You can apply further 
pressure by bringing your own right hand into the action, grab- 
bing his hand.) Keep applying force until he trips over your left 
foot. In case of a left swinging individual, reverse your own 
foot or hand correspondingly. | 


EXERCISE NO. 2 
Problem: Your antagonist takes a left hand swipe at you. 


Course of action: ; | 
1. With your own left hand grab him by the lower coat sleeve 


or by his left wrist. | : | 

2. Place your right hand at the back of his right arm just 
above the elbow, pushing his arm upward. 

3. Put your left foot in front of his right foot, pulling toward 


your left side, tripping him in the process. 


EXERCISE NO. 3 


Problem: An individual attempts to grab or slap you with his 
right hand. 


Course of action: | | 

1. With your left hand grab him around the thumb of his ex- 
tended hand, encircle his extended joint with your own thumb 
and forefingers, digging same firmly into the base of his thumb 
joint. : 

194 

















| SAFE JUDO 
. 2. Turn your body completely around so that your right leg 
is in front of his right shin. Turn his thumb down and pull it 


away from his body. Grab his forearm with your own right 
hand, pull him over your extended leg. | 


EXERCISE NO. 4 


Problem: A playful showoff has embarassed you by setting you 
down and is standing over you to keep you from get- 
ting up. 

Course of action: 


“ 1. Getto yourkneesandfacehim. / 


(2. “Walk” forward on your knees. Put your head through his 
crotch. 


3. Grab him by the back of his knees. 


| 4. Put all your weight on one knee and pull one leg up. Now 
with the combined action of your legs and upper back lift him off 


the ground and “toss him away.” 


EXERCISE NO. 5 


Problem: A playful drunk, who is not harmful but is exceed- 


ingly annoying is trying to “bear hug” you with both 
his arms. | 


Course of action: 


1. As the individual comes toward you grab him at the crotch 
of his arm at the elbow joints, keeping your thumbs on the in- 
side, near his body, and the forefingers on the outside. 

2. On the inside of every person’s arm just above the elbow 
joint is a sensitive nerve or pressure point. Squeeze your thumb 
and forefingers digging into his pressure point with your thumbs. 


T95 


SAFE JUDO 





This should cause him intense temporary pain, and should make 
him change his mind. 


sem SEELEY AED LEE A AEA 


| EXERCISE NO. 6 


Problem: A repulsive individual sends his right hand out in 
playful fashion. 


CHAPTER 23 


| f 
Course of action: ; | Ju d 0 fo r 
~ 1. Step quickly to your own left and grab him by the right | | 
side of his coat just below his armpits with your own left hand. — 
———sSelf-defense. 


Spin him away from you or toward his own left. 
and Army 


A AN a api cmp hl aera 


2. Step quickly now so that you are almost directly in back 
of him. Bring your own right arm over his right, drawing it in 
front of him a little below his neck, and grab him by the left 
lapel. | OO 
3. With your right leg in back of him, pull him backward 


over your right leg with the pressure of your right arm. You will 
soon have him flat on the ground. 





BY 


AL 
~ Combat BACHMAN 


N THE PREVIOUS CHAPTER 
we discussed exercises to thwart individuals who have no 
harmful intention. In this chapter we are going to show you 

tricks that are to be used only for self-presetvation. One 

should be prepared to cope with any dangerous situation 
that could arise in everyday life or in war. Do not use these 
tricks on someone whom you have no desire to hurt. The 
results might be disastrous. 


196. 197 








JUDO FOR SELF-DEFENSE AND ARMY COMBAT 


EXERCISE NO. I 


This exercise requires a little more skill and strength. In this 


one we combine a minor boxing technique known as weaving 
with Judo. : 


Problem: A very obnoxious person throws a vicious right at 
you. 


Course of action: 


1. With his right hand coming at you, move your head to- 
ward your own right. This should make his right fist flutter 
harmlessly over your left shoulder. 

2. Quick as a flash you pivot toward your left, driving your 
right hand upward and catching him underneath his right wrist. 

3. Now he should be at your back. Send your left hand back- 
wards and underneath his crotch. : 

4, Now jerk him over your upper back and right shoulder, 
with a little help from your left arm pushing upward from under- 
neath the crotch. 


EXERCISE N 0. 2 


Problem: You are walking down some strange sidestreet, and 
you are encountered by an individual who ° won't let 
you get away without a battle. 


Course of action: 

1. Reach out with both your hands and grab him by his 
lapels. 

2. Bend slightly — him, bowing your head in billy-goat 
fashion. Pull him toward you with a determined tugging motion, 
using your head as a battering ram against his face. 


198 





JUDO FOR SELF-DEFENSE AND ARMY COMBAT 


EXERCISE NO. 3 


Problem: A situation such as described in number six arises. 
1. Reach down with your left hand and grab him by his right 
wrist. 


Course of action: 


2. Push his arm out and away from him. Bring your right 
hand simultaneously around and under the secured wrist and 
grab your left wrist with same hand. 


3. Get in close to him and then, while still holding his wrist, 
force the arm you have hold of backward and upward. 


- EXERCISE NO. 4 


Problem: A cowardly, unarmed mugger comes directly toward 
you. . 


Course of action: 


1. As mugger comes toward you, stiffen up the hand of your 
strongest jabbing arm, and be ready. 

2. When you see the whites of his eyes or when he is within 
striking distance, jab your arm quickly and with great force. 
Catch him ‘with the tip of your extended fingers in his adams- 
apple. 


EXERCISE NO. 5 


Probie: An assailant comes at you with a menacing look in 
his eye. You know there is no way out. 


Course of action: 


1. Step either ‘to your left or right, preferably to the side of 
your strongest arm. 


199 


JUDO FOR SELF-DEFENSE AND ARMY COMBAT 


2. With your hand stiff, as in the finger jab, chop him with 
the part of your hand opposite your thumb at a spot on his neck 
slightly below his ear lobe. 


EXERCISE NO. 6 


Problem: A treacherous individual comes at you with his right 
hand upraised and holding a knife. 


Course of action: 


1. Keep cool, think clearly. Get to your left fast, grab his 
right wrist with your left hand. Squeeze his wrist and hold it as 
high as possible. 

2. Step in fast with your left foot, and in uppercut fashion 
shoot a hard punch to his solar plexus. This should halt his 
course of action momentarily. 


3. Bring that same right hand up. Grab his upper-forearm, . 


twisting it away from his Body while you, yourself, pivot away 
from him. 

4. Twist him over your extenacd foot and throw him to the 
ground. When he is down, all’s fair. 


EXERCISE NO. 7 


Problem: A strangler facing you has his hands around your 


throat. 


Course of action: 

1. Bring both your arms in between his extended arms and 
smash the inside of his arms with both yours. 

2. Clasp your hands together and bring them down in a 


chopping motion at his face or neck, or hit him with single hand 


in the solar plexus. 
200 





JUDO FOR SELF-DEFENSE AND ARMY COMBAT 


EXERCISE NO. 8 


Problem: A mugger sneaks up in back of you and attacks you 
from the rear. 


Course of action: 


1. Slip downward i in deep knee bend fashion ana grab his 
nearest foot by the ankle with both your hands. 


2. Now pull that ankle up through both your legs, this should 


upset him and you can sit down on him and start twisting his 
foot. 


EXERCISE NO. 9 


Problem: You are grabbed from behind, but your assailant does 
not have too strong a gripon you. 


Course of action: 


1. Twist around with your hands clasped together and smash 
yout elbow as you pivot, against his jaw. 


b 


EXERCISE NO. 10 


Problem: Same is in Exercises 8 and 9. 
Course of action: 


1. Drop down to one knee, between the mugger’s two arms. 
2. Grab his right hand with your right hand around. his 
fingers. Grab his right wrist with your left hand. 


3. Squeeze his right hand with all the strength your right 
hand can master. 


g 


4. Shift his weight to your right side and heave him over your 
right shoulder in pivotal fashion. 


201 


JUDO FOR SELF-DEFENSE AND ARMY COMBAT 


EXERCISE NO. Il 


Problem: A thug comes up to you and attempts to use you for a 
soccer ball. | 


Course of action: | 


1. Move to the left (if he is right footed). and grab his right 
foot at the back with your left hand. Bring it up so you can grab 
it.at the toe and arch with your right hand. | 

2. Twist the foot around so that your assailant will fall on his 
face. 


Two important principles in the science of physics are 
those of the fulcrum and the lever. In this exercise we will 
describe and illustrate how the application of these two 
rules will solve a simple Judo problem. 


EXERCISE NO. 12 


Problem: A “fists speak louder than words” individual has 
just thrown a right hand at you and deftly you have 
ducked underneath it or slipped it a la pugilistique. 


Course of action: | : 


1. Step out with your left foot and place itin back of his right 


heel. Your foot is the “fulcrum.” 


pushing it upward. This is the “lever.” . 

3. Hit him with your left fist in the small of his back. Con- 
tinue the pressure from your right palm underneath his chin. 
This should cause him to trip backwards over your “fulcrum” or 
left foot. : ce 


202 


2. Place the palm of your right hand underneath his chin, 





JUDO FOR SELF-DEFENSE AND ARMY COMBAT 


EXERCISE NO. 13 


Problem.. A \ackadaisical hold-up man is holding a gun in your 
mid-section with his right hand. At the same time he 
is feeling for your wallet with his free left hand. His 
mind wanders momentarily and the gun is no longer 


pointing at you but into the empty space at your left 


side. Your hands are up in the air. 


1. Quick as a flash, slap down with your left hand at the top 


_ Of the pistol chamber and grab it, pushing it outward and up- 
_ ward, away from your body. 


2. Almost simultaneously, pivot your body toward the left 


and bring your right hand around. Size hitn about the neck in. 


headlock fashion. | 

3. While still holding the pistol, keep turning completely to 
your left side so that your right leg is directly in front of him. 
Then throw him backwards over your hip. This should disen- 
gage the pistol from his hand. 


EXERCISE NO. 14 


Problem: You are walking along a dark, deserted street when a 
cowardly “mugger” sneaks up in back of you and 
grabs you by the hair. | 

Course of action: 

1. Weave completely around so that you are in “butting” 
position of your tormentor. 


2. At the same time, bring your hands up and grab him by 


the wrist. Twist it around until you have his arm locked in back 
of him. 


203 


sptpremnen Tite Eee rep tte TSO ips ott EIS ue as oe 




















Index 


A 


Adhesive tape, on hands, 140 

Addie, Johnny, 174 

Apparatus: 
barbells, 11, 14 
chest-weights, 13 
dumbbells, 11, 12—13 
hand-pulleys, 13. 
punching bags, 75—77 
sandbag-on-a-stick, 11-12 
see also Equipment 

Arms, development, 37—45 

Arms, use of, 30—3 1 


Army combat, judo exercises, 


198-203 — 


Back, exercises, 55—57, 63 
Back, muscles of, 35 
Barbells, 11, 14 

Biceps, exercises, 37—40, 62 
Blood, sugar, 16—17 

Body, organs, 16-17 

Body feint, 130 

Body punches, 88—91 


Bodybuilding apparatus, 11-14 
Bodybuilding foods, 26 

The “bolo,” 93—94 

Boxing styles, 73-74 


Cc 


Calves, development, 53-54, 63 
Calves, use, 33 
Charles, Ezzard, 170, 171, 172, 
185 
Chest, development, 49-52, 62 
Chest, use, 32 
Chest-weights, 13 
Chinning, 40, 62 
Circle twist exercise, 47, 62 
Clinching, 134-135 
Combination punches: 
left jab—left hook, 116 
left jab—right cross, 113-114 
left jab—right cross—left hook, 
114 
left jab—uppercut, 115 
left jab—uppercut—left hook, 
115 
right to body—left hook to chin, 
116-117 


205 








INDEX 


Counter-punching: \ 
left hook, 108-111 
left jabs, 103-106 
Counter-punching, right cross, 
106-108 
uppercut, 110, 111-112 
Covering up, 135-136 
Cups, foul-proof, 140 
“The curl,” biceps exercise, 38-39, 
40, 62 


Dead lift exercise, 56—57, 63 
Deep knee bend exercise, 51, 62, 
63 
Deep knee bend with dumbbells, 
54—55 
Defenses: 
clinching, 134—135 
covering up, 135-136 
left hook, 99-101 see also 
Counterpunching, left hook 
left jab, 95—96 . 
right cross, 97—99 
uppercut, 101-102 
Defensive boxing, 122 
“Desperation flurry,” 129 
Diet, 19-28, 144, 148 
Dumbbells: 
building your own, 11, 12—13 
chest exercise, 51 
deep knee bend with, 54-55 
reverse curl, 40 
shoulder exercises, 48—49 
swing exercise, 57, 63 
twist exercise, 44, 62 


E 
Equipment: 
bodybuilding, 11- 14 
206 


Equipment (cont.) : 
foul-proofing, 140 
gloves, 140-141 
hand-wraps, 140 
headgear, 138-139 
mouthpiece, 139-140 
tips, 149 
see also Apparatus 

Exercises: 
arm, 37—45 
back, 55-57, 63 
biceps, 37—40, 62°: 
calves, 53-54, 63 
chest, 49-52, 62 
chinning, 40, 62 
“the curl,” 38-39, 40, 62. 
dead lift, 56-57, 63 - 


deep knee bend, 51, 54-55, 62, 
- 63 | 


forearms, 43—45 
French press, 42—43, 62 
half squat, 55, 63 - 

Judo, 193-203 

legs, 54-55 

prone fold, 47—62 - 

prone press, 52-62 
push-ups, 41—42, 62 
roadwork, 50—51, 62, 150 
safe Judo, 193-196 
schedules, 62—63 
shoulders, 48—49 
side bend, 47-48, 62 
stomach, 45—48 
triceps, 41-43, 62 


| 


two-arm attention movement,- 


62 
two-arm butterfly, 48-49, 62 


two-arm military press, 40—41, 


62 
two-arm pullup, 39, 62 
windup, 43, 62 7 











| Infighting: | 





F 


Face, lubrication, 140 

Feet, in pose position, 70 
Feinting, 121-122, 129-131 
Food see Diet 

Footwork, 70: 

Forearms, exercises, 43-45, 62 
Fouls, protection, 140 

French press exercise, 42-43, 62 


' Fuel foods, 25 


G 


Gloves, sparring, 140-141 
Greeks, ancient, 4 
Groin, protection, 140 


H 


Half squat exercise, 55, 63 
Hand feint, 130 


- Hand-pulleys, 13 


Hands, protection, 140 
Head feint, 130 


“Head hunters,” 88 


Headgear, sparring, 138-139 


_ Heredity, and growth, 17-18 


art of, 120-121 
short men, 123-124 
tall men, 125—126 


J 


Jab, left, 79-82 
“‘Jab-cross-hook,” combination, 
114-115 


Jackson, Tommy “Hurricane,” 


170, 172, 186 
Jocks, foul-proof, 140 
Judo: 

safe, 193-196 


INDEX 


Judo (cont.): 
self-defense and army combat, 
198~—203 
use of, 189-191 


L 


LaStarza, Roland, 170, 172, 185 
Layne, Rex, 185 
Left hook: 
to body, 88-91 
counter-punching, 108-111 
defense, 99-101 
development, 85-91 
Left jab: 
counter-punching, 103-106 
defense against, 95—96 
development, 79-82 
left hook, 116 
right cross, 113-114 
right cross—left hook, 114— 
115 
uppercut, 115 
uppercut—left hook, 115 
Left uppercut, 94 
Legs, exercises, 54-55, 63 
Legs, use of, 34-35 
Leonard, Benny, 121 
Lungs, 50 
M 
Minerals, in food, 26 
“Mix-’em-up” move, 121 
Moore, Archie, 170, 183, 185 
Mouthpieces, 139 
Muscles: 
arm, 37 
chest, 50 
external and internal, 16-17 


N 


Neck, exercises, 52—53, 63 
Neck, use of, 33 


207 








INDEX 
Oo 


Olympic Games, 3—4 
“One-two” combination, 113-114 
Organs, human body, 16-17 


P 


“Parry,” 96 | 
Partners, sparring, 14 
Patterson, Floyd, 169-186 
Physical education, 4-6 
Pose position, 7 0-72 
Prone dumbbell lift exercise, 51, 
62 
Prone fold exercise, 47, 62 
Prone press exercise, 52, 62 
Punching: 
learning, 77—78 
left hook, 85—91 
left jab, 79-82 
left jab—left hook, 116 
left jab—right cross, 113-114 
left jab—right cross—left hook, 
114-115 
left jab—uppercut, 115 
left jab—uppercut—left hook, 
115 


right to body—left hook to chin, 
116-117 
right cross, 82-85 
straight, 149 
tips, 149, 150 
uppercut, 91-94 
Punching bags, 75-77 
Push-ups, 41—42, 62 


R 


Retreating, 72—73 

Reverse curl, biceps exercise, 40 

Reverse curl with dumbbells, 62 

Right to body—left hook to chin, 
116-117 


208 


Right cross, 82—85 

Right cross, counter-punching, 
106—108 

Right cross, defense, 97—99 

Right uppercut, 92-93 

Roadwork, 50-51, 62, 150 

Rounds, sparring, 141 


S 


Sandbag-on-a-stick, exercise with, 
51 
Sandbag-on-a-stick, how to build, 
11-12 
Schools, physical education, 5-6 
Self-confidence, 8 
Self-defense, Judo exercises, 198— 
203 
Short man vs. tall, 161-166 
Short men, and infighting, 123— 
124 .- 
Shoulder feint, 130 | 
Shoulders, exercises, 48—49 
Shoulders, use, 31-32 
Side bend exercise, 47-48, 62 
Situps, 45—46, 62 
Sparring: 
equipment for, 138-141 
location, 141 
partners, 141 
precautions after, 141-142 
tips, 150 
Stance, 69-70 4 
- Stomach, in boxing, 31 
Stomach, exercises, 45-48, 62 
Straight punches, 149 
Strength, natural, 17-18 
Sugar, blood, 16-17 


T 


Tall man vs. short, 153-159 
Tall men, and infighting, 125-126 








“Telegraphing” punches, 84, 111— 
112 


Toe rise exercise, 53—54, 63 

Trainer, choosing, 68—69 

Training, 143-148 

Triceps, exercises, 40-43, 62 

Two-arm military press, 40-41, 62 

Two-arm attention movement with 
dumbbells, 62 

Two-arm butterfly exercise, 48- 


49, 62 
Two-arm pullup, exercise, 39, 62 
U 
Uppercut: 


counterpunching, 110, 111-112 


INDEX 


Uppercut (cont.): 
defense, 101-102 
development, 91-94 


Vv 


Varicose veins, 54 
Vitamins, 26—28, 144 


Ww 
Walcott, Joe, 170, 171, 172, 185 


Windup exercise, 43, 62 
World War II, physical fitness, 5 


209 














= 











ROCKY MARCIANO — THE WINNER! 


| . 49 Times in 49 Fights 


\ The perfect record of the only 
| life-time undefeated heavyweight champion 


No, Rocky Marciano never suffered a loss or a draw. He achieved this 
flawless record by always keeping in the topnotch physical condition 
that made him the envy of the boxing profession. Now, ROCKY 
MARCIANO’S BOOK OF BOXING AND BODYBUILDING gives 


‘you the opportunity to reach this goal of body perfection—while at the 


same time, you learn to “handle your mitts like a true champion.” 


Here, too, is the expert advice from Charley Goldman that brought 
Rocky up the rough, tough road to success—and kept him at the top. 
For this invaluable guidance, Rocky gives full credit to his masterful 
handler. A trainer of five world champions, Charley Goldman is 
America’s best known fight strategist. 


Read what the ring’s most famous fight combination can do for 
YOU. See how simply the instruction from both sides of the ropes can 


give you the physical equipment and the boxing techniques that go 
with success. | 





And for your reading pleasuresand speculation woe 


“HOW WE ‘WOULD WHIP. FLOYD PATTERSON” 


Described in blow-by-blow fashion, this hypothetical championship 
bout shows how Rocky and his trainer would plan to defeat Floyd 


Patterson if the, ‘two great fighters ever met. It offers a vivid account 
of the strategy and ring - 
victory. 





techniques that go with a typical Marciano 


4 : 
wy 


EXTRA! ‘JUDO INSTRUCTION 


This section on ‘simple Judo, by Al Bachman, explains. the basic holds 
and. tells you everything 4: beginner should know about this increas- 
ingly popular sport. With some 20problems, and the simplest ways to 
cope with. them, you learn: the art of safe Judo and its use for self- 


defense. 


All this in 
ROCKY MARCIANO’S BOOK OF 
_ BOXING AND BODYBUILDING 








